Brabender'’ 
... where quality is measured. 
UY scl £ 
4 : 
. . iq 4 - £ 2 . Ps , 5} pt 3s . . ie cs 
, Instruction Manuat —~ . * : ~ ~>*s ; 
: ee "Pe . A. s < . 
rr Be ‘> “" ie ot Ss 7 
eet tae 7 ‘ > = fy P ; 7 
45 4 > Pees ‘ 
MetaStation 4E 
ID no. 8 156 70.xxx 
3 x 400 V, 50/60 Hz Copyright 
All content, pictures, texts and graphics are protected by copyright. All kind of 
translation, forwarding to third persons, reproduction and distribution - even of 
extracts - is prohibited without our prior express written consent. 
Brabender® and other brands not specially marked are registered trademarks of 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG. 
© Copyright by 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG 
KulturstraRe 49-51 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
Proprietary rights, brands and trademarks of third parties 
Any products registered as trademarks are not particularly marked in the present 
documentation. Existing property rights (patents, trademarks, registered or industrial 
designs) must be observed by all means. 
Original Instruction Manual 
815670-xxx_MetaStation-4E_BAdg-00-e 
Edition 0820Use of 30-mA RCDs 
If local regulations prescribe the application of 30-mA RCDs in order to protect the socket circuits, the following points 
are to be considered concerning selection of the RCDs. 
Three-phase drive controls with variable speed: 
e For operation of three-phase instruments with a three-phase frequency inverter, all-current sensitive RCDs 
type B must be used. 
Brabender recommends the RCD type DFS4 B SK made by Doepke (SK = special characteristic for increased 
tripping threshold up to 2 A in the pulse frequency range). A structurally identical RCD with the type designation 
RCCB2 is available from Messrs. EPA. 
® Do not connect more than one instrument to each RCD. Otherwise, the respective leakage currents of 
combined instruments may sum up and trigger the RCD. 
e Each Brabender device is tested as an individual consumer with the recommended RCDs and the real 
leakage current is documented. 
Single-phase instruments with variable speed drive units: 
e For the operation of single-phase instruments with frequency inverters, at least variable-current sensitive RCDs 
(type F) must be used, although all-current sensitive RCDs of type B should be preferred. The 
recommendations given above apply here as well. 
e Each Brabender device is tested as an individual consumer with the recommended RCDs and the real 
leakage current is documented. 
@ If the recommendations concerning the type and model of the RCD and/or concerning operation of the device 
as an individual consumer cannot be met, please contact Brabender. The Brabender program comprises 
leakage current compensation devices and isolating transformers which can be installed in the power supply 
line. 
DGUV3 tests for electrical safety in compliance 
with the German Workplace Ordinance 
Note that electrical safety tests in compliance with VDE 0701-0702 with a leakage current threshold value of 
3.5 mA is not admitted for Brabender instruments. 
Brabender instruments are subject to the EG machinery directive 2006/42/EG which requires conformity to 
EN 60204-1 (VDE 0113) for electric layout, equipment, and tests. 
Chapter 18 (Tests) of the EN 60204-1 does not prescribe leakage current tests. However, chapter 8.2.8 of the 
machinery directive makes additional requirements on protective equipotential bonding for electric equipment with 
ground leakage currents of more than 10 mA AC or DC.MetaStation 4E Contents 
Contents 
1 General Information 
1.1 Use of the instruction manual. 
1.2. Disclaimer of liability. es 
1.3 SOPRWAPE eles ceeeeeteeeseeeeecseressusasaeeaesssievseseeasaeresseareesienaesesnentensneats 10 
1:4 Scope OPUS eres pea pereemeccnen ee 
1.5 Acquisition of components from external suppliers .... 
2 Contact... 
3 Stylistic features 
3.1 General stylistic features... ccecceeeseseeeereceeeesseretsesssesesereeaneresiesees 
32 Mandatoly SighSevectscmsr enn macnernma eerie 
3.3 Design of safety messages. 
4 Safety .. 
4.1 Intended use ... 
4.2 Target Group... cceceeecscssesensessnenserecassecsssarausaecesseverssseesarsenserseeserraraee 16 
AIS ‘OWNEM'S:GULICS iosscsccrceessssccscceeseveseeeeencveeme eS 17 
4.3.1 General owner's duties .... 
44 Protective devices 
4.4.4 Emergency motor-stop button.... 
4.4.14 Position and function of the emergency motor stop button.18 
4.4.1.2 Procedure after emergency motor StOp..........0ccceeeee 19 
44.2 Emergency: shut-off Switch ..0c0ccciscnneniannacsnmannnicesinsencnae 20 
4.4.2.1 Position and function of the emergency shut-off switch ...... 20 
4.4.2.2 Procedure after actuation of the emergency shut-off 
switch... 
4.4.3 Safety device .. 
444 Automatic torque limitation . 
4.4.5 Two-hand control GeViCE.... cee ccc cee ee eects ceceeceeseeeeseetesneneeeeeeeees 22 
446 BOC Pel scsccsmerencmnpienn ner 
4.5 Residual dangers 
4.5.1 Risk of injury when handling the measuring head 
4.5.2 Unexpected start after switch-off triggered by the inverter... 
4.5.3 Danger by electricity 20.0.0... cece ceeeeceee eens eens rene teceteeecanneeeseeeeeeen 24 
5 "Transportiand Storag@ a sescrscscessew serene nnmerreaemnmersraavaten 25 
5.1. Packaging... 
5.2 Unpacking ... 
5.3. Checking the scope of delivery .. : 
5.4 Checking for and notification Of daMage........ccceeeseeseeeeseeerseeeeseeerenes 27 
5.5 TRANS POP eee eee cece ceeeee eens neenenesesceeeeceeaceereceesesessaeseeeseaeaeieaeeesevenanecaeetes 28 
5.6 Storage 
6 Components and functional features . 
6.1 General description 
6.2 Designation of the sides of the instrument............0.cccsseseseeeeeeenees 31Contents 
6.3 Product labels 00.2.0... cececeeeeeeeeesseeseeeeeeeesccecseeeeseesnenercneceseenneetiereeentcaee 32 
6.3.1 Name plate. 
6.3.2 Further product labels. 
6.4 Main components 
6.4.1 Front side, terminal Side@.................:c.0ccccceeeeteeseeneereeceetaeeaeenennnreeee 33 
6.4.2 Right side, rear Sid@.............ccsseseeeeeeeterereate renee retseseeraaaneneserensens 34 
6.5 Drive motor 
6.6 Mounting surface 
6.7 Spiral tooth gear clutch .. 
6.8 Conmection panel ...........ccsseccssessessssssceresesssseaeneenenesencresneteeneeaeneeee’ 
6.9 Mobile frame (option) 
7 MetaBridge software 
7.1. Starting/running down the internal PC... 
tAA Starting the internal PC 
mAs Running down the internal PC .............- cece tenees eee teeeeatees see 
7.2 Start screen of the Brabender MetaBridge 
8 Technical Data 
8.1 Noise measurement... 
9 MONG sicnesecccrcevicnccrsescvencecenanimnsccernneneerenennerenuanmoimamuaynennsnanennennenenntad 
9.1 Safety notes concerning MOUNTING.............ccc cee terete ee tet tete ences 43 
9.2 Requirements to the place of mounting ... 
93 Setup and assembly. 
9.3.1 Leveling the instrument. 
9.3.2 Removing the shipping fixture ............cccceee cette terete cette reeaee rene 45 
9.4 Power supply connection 
9.5 Mounting of measuring heads 
9.5.1 Mounting of measuring heads up to YoM 08/2008... 
9.5.2 Preparations for mounting a measuring MIXEN.........e eee 
9.5.2.1 Mounting the mixer supporting fOrk ........:.ccceeeeereeeeeteene 
9.5.2.2 Mounting the mixer support (additional equipment) .... 
9.5.3 CAN connection 
9.5.3.1 CAN connection of measuring mixers .. 
9.5.3.2 CAN connection of measuring extruders ......... ccc 51 
10 SAUD. ee seeseececeseeecsesteneessseseeenensereseseesereeneaueneneenconsneraessersecayeeseisesaneaseasans 
10.1 Safety notes concerning start-up .. 
10.2 Preparations, switching on.. 
10.3 Presettings in the MetaBridge software at initial start-up 
10.4 Functional check of the safety GEVICES ..........-cccseteeestseseeeeetneretenrnereeseaee 
10.4.1 Safety switch and two-hand control device..........eeecen eens 
10.4.2 Emergency motor stop button.... 
10.4.3. Emergency shut-off switch... 
11 Setup and operation 
11.1 Daily work before start Of Operation 0.0.0.2... steer este ten eeneeeeetitaens 59 
6 : MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E Contents 
PALA «= Me ta Brid Q@ OQ 21 wscoiecrcscrsacsxesexnanmeanevemennrararcmnemnnccertosnievnsesee 59 
11.2 Daily work before start of operation ............ ce cece cece cee ee ceeeteeeeeeteees 60 
11.3. Running a measurement. 
11.3.1 General remarks 
12 Cleaning 
13 9  MaiNtON ANC ws cssescccsisiesvesccesenarsnensescanavemameniermaueresrsomimeetenareeaeistn 65 
13.1 Safety notes concerning maintenance... reeset ee tees eeneneenes 65 
13.2 Bearings... 
13.3 Fan(s)... 
13.3.1. Position, function 
ABVS2 Checking therfiller Mab nccscccssccsceresciemersereccmmnrnenncmmavincend 67 
14 Trouble-Shooting oo... csceceeeecsceeceeserteeersceeneeceeseneeaeceeeeeeeeeeeenaerereeeneeeecseneses 69 
15 Repair 
16 Disposal... 
17s Annex..... 
17.1 Accessories, spare parts, additional equipment .............. cece 81 
17.2 Electrical documents, wiring diagrams... cece rene tereteteeetseeeneaes 81 
17.3 Electric interferences. 
18 = index... Contents 
a 7 ~ MetaStation aRead the manual 
thoroughly! 
Strictly observe 
instructions and 
safety instructions! 
Keep and hand over 
with the instrument! 
Keep instruction 
manual accessible at 
any time! 
MetaStation 4E General 
1 General Information 
1.1. Use of the instruction manual 
Brabender instruments/software are developed/designed and built according to the 
state-of-the-art and comply with the demand for simple and safe handling. In order 
to become familiar with the applications and to use the Brabender 
instrument/software in an optimum way, it is imperative to read this instruction 
manual very carefully before putting the Brabender instrument into operation. 
The instructions, safety instructions and precautions given in the present instruction 
manual have to be observed strictly. 
This instruction manual manual is delivered with the Brabender instrument/software 
and is intended for operation in practice. It is to make the operating personnel familiar 
with the Brabender instrument/software and to inform them about details concerning 
transport, storage, mounting, start-up, operation, maintenance, trouble-shooting, 
and disposal. 
Maintenance and service instructions must be observed for reasons of effective 
operational safety and a long lifetime of the Brabender instrument. 
This instruction manuai is, therefore, to be considered part of the Brabender 
instrument/software and must be kept and handed over with the instrument/software. 
The operating personnel as well as the personnel in charge of maintenance and 
repair must always have free access to this instruction manual. 
1.2 Disclaimer of liability 
Within the scope of legal regulations, Brabender GmbH & Co. KG refuses any liability 
- for whatever legal argument - for direct or indirect damage caused in connection 
with the delivery or use of the Brabender instrument/software. This is in particular 
true for - but not limited to - improper use and/or improper operation and handling of 
the Brabender instrument/software. 
In this context, Brabender explicitly excludes any warranty for wear parts, in 
particular for those with product contact. 
Under no circumstances, Brabender GmbH & Co. KG can be made liable for any 
damage or injuries caused by non-observance of the safety regulations included in 
the data sheets of the producer of substances to be tested or processed with the 
Brabender instrument. This is also valid if a recommendation was made concerning 
the application of certain substances and/or if the provision of test material is part of 
the scope of delivery and service. 
The Brabender instrument is subject to modifications of color and design as well as 
to technical modification without prior notice.General Information 
1.3 Software 
The Brabender software is developed with care and is tested internally - within the 
frame of general safety standards also for computer virus. This does, however, not 
involve any warranty whatsoever that the data carriers provided by Brabender and/or 
data transmitted electronically by Brabender are virus free. 
It is within the exclusive responsibility of the user to test the Brabender software by 
means of state-of-the-art virus searching programs and to make sure that only 
Brabender software is applied which has been duly tested for computer virus by the 
user and has been found virus free. 
Any claims arising from liability for defects concerning the functionality, 
faultlessness, and usability of Brabender software and/or concerning Brabender 
software being virus free are therefore excluded. 
Our liability for any other damage arisen by the use of the Brabender software is 
limited to intent or gross negligence. Any further liability - for whatever legal 
argument, in particular for direct or indirect consequential damage - is excluded. 
The software is subject to modification serving functional improvement and technical 
progress without prior notice. 
Due to continuous progress and development of the software, the screenshots, if 
included in the present instruction manual, may slightly differ from the software 
version delivered. 
1.4 Scope of delivery 
The scope of delivery is given in the shipping documents. 
1.5 Acquisition of components from external suppliers 
Brabender cannot guarantee that any components bought by the carrier/user from 
external suppliers and incorporated into the system without prior consultation of 
Brabender will be recognized correctly by the Brabender software and will work 
properly within the system. 
@ Brabender recommends contacting the Brabender Service dept. before 
installing such foreign components. 
10 ~ MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E 2 Contact 
Data to be stated in case of inquiries 
If there are any inquiries to Brabender - e.g. relating to handling of the Brabender 
instrument/software, ordering of spare parts, accessories, additional equipment or to 
sending back Brabender instruments or parts of the instrument/spare parts for 
maintenance or repair - all data given on the name plate must be stated. 
For questions concerning the Brabender software, besides the ID no. of the software 
the version no. must be stated as well. 
Contact 
For any questions, further information, or in case of problems with the Brabender 
instrument/software, please do not hesitate to contact the Brabender Service 
department. 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG 
KulturstraBe 49 - 51 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
@ Phone +49-203-7788-131 
ce E-mail: service@brabender.com 
North American Regions 
C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
@ Phone 201-343-8425 
62 E-mail: service@cwbrabender.comContact 
aa : - “ MeteStation 4Efeatures 
3 Stylistic features 
3.1. General stylistic features 
The following stylistic features are used in the instruction manual: 
1. marks operating instructions in their serial order 
> [indented] marks individual steps of a preceding general instruction 
> [indented] marks the consequences of a preceding action 
> {in safety messages] marks operating instructions 
C) marks lists or (in instructions) alternatives 
- [indented] marks subordinated lists 
3.2. Mandatory signs 
The following mandatory signs are used in the instruction manual: 
@ General mandatory sign, additional information 
& Read the instructions before, cross reference 
MetaStation 4E 13features 
3.3. Design of safety messages 
The safety messages given in the instruction manual are marked by a hazard 
warning sign and a signal word. 
The signal word and the associated signal color indicate the relative severity of the 
hazard: 
DANGER 
Describes an imminently hazardous situation which will result in death or 
serious injury if not avoided. 
, Describes a potentially hazardous situation which is likely to result in death or 
serious injury if not avoided. 
| Describes a potentially hazardous situation which may result in minor or 
moderate injury if not avoided. 
Describes a situation which may result in property damage if not avoided. 
~ MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E Safety 
4 Safety 
4.1 Intended use 
Intended use 
The Brabender instrument may only be used in non-hazardous locations after having 
been completely assembled. 
The instrument may only be used within the limits stated in chapter 8 "Technical 
Data" and only as a drive unit for Brabender measuring heads designed for this drive 
unit. 
Brabender measuring instruments are high-precision instruments with a highly 
sensitive measuring system. Always handle the instrument with care in order to avoid 
damage to the instrument and to the measuring system. 
Improper application 
The Brabender instrument must NEVER be used for testing of or in connection with 
explosives - explosion hazard! 
Unauthorized modifications of the Brabender instrument may cause danger to the 
personnel or property damage and, moreover, result in loss of guarantee and are, 
therefore, forbidden. 
Sudden and rigid speed changes from low to high values on the drive unit can cause 
damage to or even destruction of the measuring head and are, therefore, forbidden. 
1516 4.2 Target group 
Mounting, modification, disposal 
Mounting, modification, and disposal of the Brabender instrument may only be 
carried out by technically skilled personnel with the corresponding qualifications. 
Electric work is only allowed to be carried out by qualified and skilled electricians in 
compliance with the rules for electrical engineering. 
Operation, cleaning, maintenance 
Routine operation, cleaning during routine operation, and maintenance of the 
Brabender instrument may only be carried out by skilled personnel. 
The personnel in charge of operation, cleaning, and maintenance of the Brabender 
instrument must have been instructed by a skilled person. 
The persons in charge of operation, cleaning, and maintenance of the Brabender 
instrument must have the technical and computer skills enabling them to carry out 
the work described in chapter 11 "Setup and operation", chapter 12 "Cleaning", and 
chapter 13 "Maintenance" safely and without any risk to themselves or others. 
Repair 
Repair work on the Brabender instrument is only allowed to be executed by 
Brabender service technicians or by skilled personnel authorized for this work by 
Brabender. 
~~ WMetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E Safety 
4.3. Owner's duties 
4.3.1 General owner's duties 
The owner of the Brabender instrument must ensure that mounting, operation, 
maintenance of the instrument as well as repair and disposal, if applicable, are 
carried out exclusively by the personnel defined in chapter 4.2 "Target group". 
The owner of the Brabender instrument has to furnish proof of training of the 
personnel in charge of operation, cleaning, and maintenance of the Brabender 
instrument. 
Prior to instrument set-up, the owner of the Brabender instrument has to make sure 
of the proper condition, assembly, and mounting of the instrument according to the 
instructions given in chapter 9 “Mounting”. 
The owner of the Brabender instrument must ensure that the operating personnel 
read and understood the instruction manual of the Brabender instrument as weil as 
the test material safety data sheets of the respective producer prior to testing and 
processing any test material with the Brabender instrument and that they will observe 
them. 
The measures listed in the respective test material safety data sheets of the producer 
in order to avoid any possible danger when handling the corresponding material 
must strictly be observed. 
1718 4.4 Protective devices 
4.4.1. Emergency motor stop button 
4.4.1.1 Position and function of the emergency motor stop button 
The instrument is equipped with an emergency motor stop button (see fig. below). 
Pressing the emergency motor stop button immediately stops the motor of the 
instrument. 
@ Upon activation, the emergency motor stop button lights red. 
Fig. 1: Emergency motor stop button 
CO a ee Risk of burns! 
The emergency motor stop button does not switch off the heating/cooling system. 
The measuring head still remains hot even after actuation of the emergency motor 
stop button. 
> Strictly observe the safety messages concerning hot surfaces in the 
corresponding chapters of the separate instruction manual of the measuring 
head! 
as Risk of severe injury! 
The emergency motor stop button helps to avoid potentially hazardous situations. 
> Never bridge the emergency motor stop button! 
> Never lock the emergency motor stop button mechanically! 
> Always keep the emergency motor stop button visible and easily accessible! 
MetaStation 4ESafety 
4.41.2 Procedure after emergency motor stop 
(ae Risk of severe injury, risk of property damage! 
Before restarting the system upon actuation of the emergency motor stop button 
> Make sure that the cause for the actuation of the emergency motor stop 
button has been eliminated! 
> Make sure that there is no risk to the personnel or to the machine when 
restarting the system! 
1: Slightly turn the emergency motor stop button until it pops out. 
2. Press the "Start" button on the drive unit in order to switch on the drive again. 
=> The "Start" button lights up. 
= The drive unit immediately starts rotating with the speed set last in the 
operating mode currently active. 
MetaStation 4E 1944.2 Emergency shut-off switch 
4.4.2.1 Position and function of the emergency shut-off switch 
The instrument is equipped with an emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch, see 
fig. below). Turning the emergency shut-off switch to position "O" immediately cuts 
off power supply to the instrument. 
Fig. 2: Emergency shut-off switch 
1 Position "1" ON 2 Position "0" OFF 
4.4.2.2 Procedure after actuation of the emergency shut-off switch 
CO Eee Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Before restarting the system upon actuation of the emergency shut-off switch 
> Make sure that the cause for the actuation of the emergency shut-off switch 
has been eliminated! 
> Make sure that the system cannot be started before having reached full 
operating temperature! 
> Make sure that there is no risk to the personnel or to the machine when 
restarting the system! 
1. Turn the emergency shut-off switch to position "I" again. 
2. Wait until the system has reached full operating temperature again. 
3. Press the "Start" button in order to restart the drive unit. 
> The "Start" button lights up. 
MetaStation 4E4.4.3 Safety device 
Brabender measuring heads are equipped with a non-contact magnetic safety 
device which triggers the control unit of the drive unit via a safety relay and prevents 
unintentional operation of the system when the measuring head has been drawn off 
or, with measuring mixers, is open. 
The drive unit can only be started in normal operation (that means through the 
software) if the measuring head has been mounted properly, the plug of the safety 
device has been connected to the connection "Safety Device" and, with measuring 
mixers, the mixer has been closed so that the safety switch gets a response from its 
counterpart. 
Koa) Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Danger of most serious injury by rotating parts when the measuring head is open 
or has been drawn off or not been mounted properly. 
In such cases, the safety device prevents operation of the instrument system. 
> Never bridge the safety device or put it out of function in any other way! 
Fig. 3: Safety connections 
1 Connection "2-hand control 3 Connection "Safety Device" for 
device” for measuring mixers safety device of the measuring 
2 Connection "Torque limit key” heads 
MetaStation 4E 2122 4.4.4 Automatic torque limitation 
Brabender measuring heads are equipped with an automatic torque limitation. For this 
purpose, the 8-pole cable coming out from under the gear cover hood of the measuring 
head must be connected to the connection "Torque limit key” on the front side of the 
drive unit. 
The drive unit now automatically recognizes the maximum admitted torque for the 
measuring head mounted. When this torque value is exceeded, the motor of the 
drive unit is turned off automatically (with measuring mixers) or the speed is reduced 
until the torque is within the admitted range again (with measuring extruders). 
®@ Concerning the connections for the automatic torque limitation and the two-hand 
control device, please refer to the figure in chapter 4.4.3 "Safety device" 
4.4.5 Two-hand control device 
Brabender measuring mixers are equipped with a two-hand control device allowing to 
run the measuring mixer at low speed (approx. 10 min“) when it is open (e.g. for cleaning 
purposes). 
For this purpose, the keys in the handles of the measuring mixer must be connected 
via the corresponding connection cables with the connections "2-Hand Safety 
Device" on the drive unit or, in case of operation of the measuring mixer on a docking 
station with the Plastograph or Lab-Station, on the drive unit and on the docking 
station. 
@ Concerning connection of the two-hand control device, please also refer to the 
separate instruction manual of the measuring mixer. 
4.4.6 Beeper 
The instrument is equipped with two acoustic alarms (beepers) indicating the 
following alarm situations: 
e Temperature controller alarm: intermittent sound 
e Software alarm: continuous sound 
Apart from that, the device is equipped with an internal beeper for announcing 
software alarms acoustically. 
MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E 4.5 Residual dangers 
4.5.1 Risk of injury when handling the measuring head 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage by a falling measuring head! 
When handling the measuring head, it may possibly fall down! 
Risk of serious injury, risk of property damage when the measuring head falls 
down! 
> Ensure to always wear work shoes with protective caps when working on 
the instrument system! 
> Grip the measuring head firmly or ensure safe handling otherwise as long 
as it has not been fixed firmly on the drive unit! 
4.5.2 Unexpected start after switch-off triggered by the inverter 
In case of continuous operation with high torque load, the motor may tend to 
overheat, causing automatic machine stop triggered by the inverter. 
After such machine stop, cooling down, and restart of the drive unit, the measuring 
head may start immediately when the "Start" key is pressed. 
ele Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Risk of serious injury, entanglement hazard by a sudden start of the drive unit! 
Risk of damage to or destruction of the measuring head by objects or tools within 
the measuring head when the drive unit suddenly starts! 
Before pressing the "Start" key 
> Make sure that there is no risk to the personnel or to the machine when 
restarting the device! 
> Make sure that there are no objects/tools within the measuring head which 
might damage the measuring head! 
2324 4.5.3 Danger by electricity 
Danger to life, risk of injury due to voltage leading parts! 
In case of improper use of electric components, there is the risk of serious injuries 
or death by direct or indirect contact with live parts or connections! 
> 
> Work on electrical equipment is only to be carried out by authorized 
electricians! 
Do not run the machine with faulty electric connections or connections that 
are not ready for operation! 
Before connecting the instrument to the power supply, make sure that the 
line is equipped with a fault current circuit breaker (RCD), minimum type B 
[30 mA], and that the line voltage and frequency match the data given on 
the name plate! 
Only connect the power plug to a correctly installed power outlet with 
protection contact (PE)! 
Avoid a tripping hazard when laying the power cable! Highlight any tripping 
positions! 
Keep access to the electric modules closed always. Access only by 
authorized personnel with the appropriate training and security briefing! 
Always pull the power plug before opening any access to the electric 
modules of the Brabender instrument! 
Always pull the power cable on the piug, never pull on the cable! 
Do not expose the power cable and the plug to humidity! 
MetaStation 4ESmall parts, 
accessories, and 
additional equipment 
may be packed in 
separate boxes or 
crates 
MetaStation 4E and 
5 Transport and Storage 
5.1. Packaging 
Packaging of the instrument, accessories, and additional equipment 
Brabender instruments are packed properly and professionally into wooden crates. 
Small parts and accessories are packed separately into cardboard boxes or bags 
contained in the crates. 
Additional equipment is packed either in the same crate as the instrument or in a 
separate crate, depending on the scope of the order. 
Shipping labels on the crate 
It is essential to observe the following labels on the outside of the crate(s): 
[tt | This side up! 
Y| Fragile, handle with care! 
ine Keep dry! Transport and Storage 
5.2 
1. 
3. Unpacking 
Upon arrival of the Brabender instrument, the owner of the Brabender 
instrument must inspect the shipping crate for any outside damage. 
If any damage is detected, notify the transport guide immediately. 
® Please also refer to chapter 5.4 "Checking for and notification of 
damage". 
Remove the cover of the crate(s). 
C—O Parts of the instrument may be damaged! 
> 
> When removing the lateral walls of the crate, take care of braces and 
supports within the crate as well as of bolt connections at the bottom of the 
crate, etc.! 
Carefully remove the lateral walls of the crate. 
Unpack the Brabender instrument with care. Take particular care for small 
parts or accessories within the packing material. 
@ Leave cover hoods and protective films on the Brabender instrument 
until mounting and commissioning, respectively. 
Inspect the packing material very carefully. 
@ Depending on the way of shipping and on circumstances which are 
beyond Brabender's influence, parts of the Brabender instrument may 
have loosened during transport despite proper and professional 
packing and may be hidden within the packing material. 
Dispose the packing material in an ecologically friendly way in compliance with 
the local regulations concerning disposal only after the owner of the 
Brabender instrument has found the scope of delivery to be complete. 
& For checking the scope of delivery, please refer to chapter 5.3 
"Checking the scope of delivery" 
MetaStation 4EIf damage is found, 
notify immediately: 
@ the transport 
guide 
@ Brabender 
GmbH & Co. KG 
or in North 
America, C.W. 
Brabender 
instruments, Inc. 
MetaStation 4E 5.3 
5.4 and 
Checking the scope of delivery 
The owner of the Brabender instrument must compare the scope of delivery 
with the shipping documents in a timely manner to the arrival of the Brabender 
instrument at the place of destination. 
If there is any discrepancy, notify Brabender GmbH & Co. KG or in North 
America, C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. immediately in writing. 
@ Any delayed claims made by the owner regarding missing equipment 
or spare parts will not be provided replacements free of charge. 
Checking for and notification of damage 
Upon arrival of the Brabender instrument, inspect the shipping crate(s) for 
outside damage. 
Immediately upon unpacking and checking of the scope of delivery, check the 
Brabender instrument as such for any signs of damage. 
If damage is found, notify the transport guide immediately. 
Provide a copy of the transport damage report to Brabender GmbH & Co. KG 
or in North America, C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. immediately. Also 
provide the place and time of the damage. 
@ If the ownership of the equipment was transferred to the buyer at the 
same time of or prior to transportation, the buyer is liable for all 
damages incurred during transportation. The buyer or the receiver must 
observe the regulations of the insurance policy. 
ge If necessary, the average adjuster appointed by the claim opponent 
must be given the opportunity to inspect the shipment/the Brabender 
instrument. 
Cee Risk of injury, risk of property damage by a defective instrument! 
A defective instrument can result in unknown hazards for humans and instrument! 
> Never mount or use a defective instrument! 
27Transport and Storage 
28 5.5 Transport 
PADANGER DANGER 
Danger of serious injury or death, risk of property damage by overhead load 
and/or by the use of lifting devices with insufficient carrying capacity! 
> 
> Always dismantle any mounted measuring head or parts that may come off 
and put them on a suitable base before transporting the Brabender 
instrument. 
Before lifting the Brabender instrument, ensure sufficient carrying capacity 
of the lifting equipment! 
When moving the instrument with an overhead crane by means of ropes, chains, 
or belts: 
> 
yo 
> 
> Do not stand underneath suspended loads! 
Only use ropes, chains, or belts with sufficient carrying capacity! 
Only use ropes, chains, or belts in safe operating condition! 
Fix the ropes, chains, or belts as near as possible to the gravity center of 
the instrument! 
When moving the instrument with a fork lift truck: 
> 
a 
ae Put on or mount the lifting device as near as possible to the gravity center 
of the instrument! 
Do not stand underneath suspended loads! 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage by a dropping instrument or by wrong 
posture when persons carry or move the instrument! 
> 
> Always wear work shoes with protective caps when moving the Brabender 
instrument! 
Whern lifting and carrying the Brabender instrument, take care for a straight 
and upright posture! 
Lift the instrument with two persons (one on every side) onto a suitable 
carriage in order to carry it to the desired place of mounting! 
Do not carry the Brabender instrument over long distances! 
MetaStation 4ETransport and Storage 
NOTICE 
Parts of the instrument may be damaged! 
When mounting lifting devices, ropes, chains or belts, parts of the instrument can 
be damaged. 
Take care of > Fix lifting devices, ropes, chains, or belts so that no sensitive parts of the 
sensitive parts! instrument such as switches, levers, etc. are damaged! 
1: Move the unpacked instrument with extreme caution to the intended 
installation site. 
a If included in the scope of delivery, the device can be moved on the 
mobile frame to the intended instatllation site. 
NOTICE 
Risk of damage to the instrument! 
Avoid slamming on The instrument or parts of it may be damaged by slamming it on a surface. 
surfaces! > Put down the instrument carefully! 
MetaStation 4E 295.6 Storage 
Ci Risk of property damage due to improper storage! 
Storage in humid or aggressive environment may cause corrosion and, in extreme 
cases, pitting corrosion. 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> Dismantle the measuring head before storage. 
Clean and dry all surfaces of the machine thoroughly before storage. 
Put the cover hood from the accessory kit onto the motor shaft in the clutch. 
Cover the instrument with a cover hood or protective film in order to protect 
it against dust and humidity. 
Store the Brabender instrument and all parts thereof in dry and safe 
environment only. 
Put the Brabender instrument on a support which is at least 200 mm high, 
in order to protect the instrument from soil moisture. 
Arrange storage areas in a way that moisture can escape and periodical 
inspections are possible. 
Ensure that the device stands firmly and safely and is protected against 
rolling or slipping away and tipping (if equipped, lock the break). 
Extreme temperature fluctuations or long exposure to direct sun may cause 
damage to the instrument or machine! 
> Do not expose the Brabender instrument or parts thereof to extreme 
temperature fluctuations or direct sun! 
®@ For details concerning the admissible limit values of environment temperature 
30 and humidity, please refer to chapter 8 "Technical Data”. 
MetaStation 4E"Front side" 
"Terminal side" 
“Right side" 
“Rear side" 
MetaStation 4E functional 
6 Components and functional features 
6.1 General description 
The device is a table-top drive unit for various Brabender measuring mixers, internal 
mixers and measuring extruders for recipe development, material testing and quality 
assurance in laboratories and goods incoming inspection. 
The scope of delivery of the device comprises: 
e Basic software MetaBridge MixMB or ExtMB for measuring mixers and measuring 
extruders, respectively 
The following components need to be ordered separately: 
e Measuring heads 
e Mobile frame (for operation with measuring heads mounted on a docking 
station) 
e further MetaBridge program modules (e.g. data correlation, user-specific 
evaluation methods, etc.) 
6.2 Designation of the sides of the instrument 
The side of the device with the mounting surface for the measuring heads and with 
the emergency motor stop button is referred to as "front side" in the following. 
The side of the device with the connection panel is referred to as "terminal side" in 
the following. 
The side opposite to the terminal side with the emergency shut-off switch is referred 
to as "right side" in the following. 
The side with the communication ports (HDMI, USB, LAN) is referred to as "rear 
side" in the following. 
31= and functional features 
6.3 Product labels 
6.3.1. Name plate 
The name plate of the Brabender instrument contains the following information: 
Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG 6 Kulturstr. 49-51 D-47055 Duisburg Germany 
1 EE Phone:-49-203-7788-0 — f brabender@brabender.com 7 
2 Product 8 
3 loModet [____] SiN 9 
4 —————e kw . 10 
5 ————piagram[_____}. [___s+ —-C & 1 
Fig. 4: Name plate (example) 
1 Instrument name A Serial number 
2 ID no. 8 Year of mounting 
3 Admissible line frequency 9 Rated power 
4 Admissible voltage 10 ~—Rated current 
5 Electric drawing no. 11. CE sign 
6 Manufacturer's name and address 12 Speed 
6.3.2 Further product labels 
Signification: Instrument was checked in the 
checked Brabender workshop 
Brabender| Signification: Instrument was checked for electrical 
pene hig lord safety in the Brabender workshop 
Et 60204-1 2006/A1:2009 
bye 
bate. 
Signification: Read instruction manual before starting 
the Brabender instrument! 
Signification: Pull the power cord before opening the 
device! 
Signification: Danger electricity behind the door/under 
the cover hood! 
Signification: Danger, machine may start 
automatically! 6.4 Main components 
6.4.1 Front side, terminal side nponents and functional features 
The following control elements and connections are located on the front side and on 
the terminal side of the instrument: 
Fig. 5: 
1 
2 
3 
4 
MetaStation 4E Control elements and connections on the front side and terminal side 
Connection panel 
Locking wheel for mounting 
surface 
Touchscreen with integrated 
MetaBridge software 
Emergency motor stop button 5 
6 
7 
8 
9 "Start" key 
"Stop" key 
Spiral tooth gear clutch 
Mounting surface for measuring 
head 
Mobile frame 
33g! 6.4.2 Right side, rear side 
The following control elements and ports are located on the right and rear side of the 
device: 
Fig. 6: Control elements and ports on the right and rear side 
1 Emergency shut-off switch 5 USB 2.0 (1x) 
(isolator switch) 6 USB 2.0 (2 x) 
2 Equipotential bonding screw 7 LAN 1 
3 Power cord 8 LAN 2 
4 HDMI 
6.5 Drive motor 
The drive motor is a maintenance-free servomotor carried in a pendulum bearing. 
Due to digital control, speed variations are almost excluded. 
6.6 Mounting surface 
The measuring heads can be mounted either directly on the mounting surface of the 
drive unit or on a mobile docking station. 
Ct) For measuring heads mounted on a docking station, the drive unit must be 
mounted on the mobile frame. 
Measuring heads mounted on the mounting surface of the drive unit are connected 
directly to the drive unit through the spiral tooth gear clutch. 
To connect measuring heads mounted on a docking station, the mounting surface 
of the drive unit can be unlocked with the locking wheel on the connection panel and 
drawn out. The docking station is then approached to the drive unit so that the 
mounting surface of the docking station fits into the corresponding recess and can 
be locked with the locking wheel.6.7 Spiral tooth gear clutch 
Brabender measuring heads built 08/2008 or later are connected to the drive unit 
through a spiral tooth gear clutch. 
6.8 Connection panel 
On the terminal side of the instrument, there is the connection panel with the 
following connections: 
e Control temperature connections zones no. 1 - 6 
Heater cable connections zones no. 1 - 6 
Central compressed air input (max. 1.5 bars) 
Cooling air connections of the individual zones 
CAN-OUT connection with terminal resistor 
Melt temperature 1 - 4 
Locking wheel for mounting surface 
MetaStation 4E Fig. 7: Connection panel 
1 Connections for contro! 
thermocouples and heater cables 
of zones no. 1-6 Melt temperature 7 - 4 
A Thermocouple connection Locking wheel for mounting 
B_ Heater cable connection surface 
2 Central cooling air input Cooling air to zones 
CAN-OUT connection Don A 
6.9 Mobile frame (option) 
The Brabender device can be mounted on a mobile light metal frame which is 
equipped with castors for easy transport of the device to the intended instailation site 
and for locking it there. 
@ To level and secure the mobile frame in its final position, the adjustable feet 
should be screwed out.‘MetaStation 4E,Fig. 8: 
MetaStation 4E 7 MetaBridge software 
The Brabender MetaBridge has been factory installed on the internal PC of the 
Brabender instrument. The software is web-based, that means several authorized 
users can log in at the same time and monitor the readings live on their PC, tablet or 
smartphone from anywhere around the world via internet or network. The results can 
be evaluated, printed, and exported using the software. 
7.1 Starting/running down the internal PC 
7.1.1 Starting the internal PC 
1, For starting the internal PC, switch on the device on the main power switch 
on/off. 
= After afew seconds, the log-in window shows up (see fig. below) where 
you can log in or create a new user account. 
@ Concerning log-in and log-in window, please also refer to chapter 11.1.1 
"MetaBridge log-in" 
iMetaBridge 
mee 
feed Hain me gsinset? 
Kone ae ge 
Log-in window 
{standard log-in) or 
Fig. 9: IMetabriage 
Log-in window (creating a 
new user account) 
37eis@ridue software 
Button "Shut down 
the device" 
38 7.1.2 Running down the internal PC 
@ Running down the internal PC is only possible on site, that means directly on 
the device. 
Risk of loss of data by running down the PC improperly! 
Switching off the internal PC with the main power switch on the Brabender 
instrument, data may be damaged or get lost. 
> Always run down the internal PC properly before switching off the 
Brabender instrument. 
> Do not switch off the Brabender instrument as long as the internal PC is still 
running! 
1. For running down the internal PC and the touchscreen, if any, tap the "User" 
tile: 
> The following selection window pops up: 
Please select an action... 
[ER | og ot 
Pd T Change password 
[@)| shut down the device | 
| 
| @ | User administration | 
| W)| Restart the device 
4 
Fig. 10: Selection of user functions 
@ The buttons "Shut down the device" and "Restart the device” are only 
visible in focal operation. In remote mode, i.e. on external terminals, 
these two functions are not available N Tap the Button "Shut down the device". 
> A message window "The device is shutting down” pops up. 
sity, 
4s 
The device is shutting down 
Fig. 11: | Message "The device is shutting down" 
> After a few seconds, the internal PC is shut down and the touchscreen 
turns off. 
~ MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E cacaesd SORES 
7.2. Start screen of the Brabender MetaBridge 
Upon log-in, the start screen of the Brabender MetaBridge appears (see fig. below 
as an example). 
G Generally, the start screen contains some device-specific tiles in the upper 
part and some general tiles in the lower part. 
The arrangement of the tiles may vary depending on the terminal (PC, tablet, 
smartphone) and monitor size. 
i) Concerning the menus and functions of the individual tiles, please refer to the 
separate instruction manual of the corresponding software. 
@ If both the extruder software ExtMB and the mixer software MixMB have been 
installed and released, the start screen of the last active application will appear 
after a restart of the device. Tapping the tile "MultiDevice" allows switching 
from ExtMB to MixMB and vice versa. 
abpugeryy (sepusqeig 
Fig. 12: Start screen MixMB 
4 Device-specific tiles 2 General tiles 
Select your device 
“ Poe * 18 i er, * es SP ot tS 
Fig. 13: Selection between ExtMB and MixMB 
38VetaBndge software 
‘ amen ne . hietaSiation @ Drive unit 8 Technical Data 
Motor: 
Speed range: 4.2-kW servomotor 
0.2 - 185 min’, infinitely variable 
Speed deviation: Max. + 1 % of full range through digital 
feedback 
Dynamometer unit Torque measuring range: 0-200 Nm 
Automatic recognition of the max. torque 
for the connected measuring head 
Automatic stop or speed reduction when 
the max. admitted torque is exceeded 
Ports e HDMI: 
e USB 2.0 (3 x): 
e LAN 1/LAN 2: For large monitor 
For connection of a USB stick, printer, 
mouse, keyboard, etc. 
Internet connection and/or connection of 
further devices via LAN (feeder, blown 
film take-off unit, winder, etc.) 
Temperature control | 6 zones Inputs/outputs: 
| ® 4x Melt temperature 
e 6 x Control temperature 
e 6 x Heating 
* 4 x Central cooling air input 
6 4 x Cooling air output to the control 
| zones 
|e CAN-OUT 
Current supply Electricity 3x 400 V, 50/60 Hz +N+PE, 32A 
Power consumption: 
e Drive unit with measuring head 
without heating power: 10A 
e Drive unit with measuring head 
with heating power: up to 32 A, dep. on measuring head 
MetaStation 4E 41Dimensions and Dimensions (W x H x D) 
weight e without mobile frame: 700mmx 870mm x950mm 
\@ with mobile frame: 700 mmx 1652mm x 950mm 
| Weight: - 
e without mobile frame: 154 kg 
e with mobile frame: 174 kg 
Environmental \@ Storage: : 7 
conditions | Temperature -20°C-+55°C 
Relative humidity 5...95% 
without condensation 
The above-named maximal values for 
| temperature and relative humidity must 
: not occur simultaneously. 
e Operation: 
Temperature \+5°C-+40°C 
| Relative humidity 5... 85% 
without condensation 
The above-named maximal values for 
temperature and relative humidity must 
not occur simultaneously. 
@ The dimensions stated above usually include necessary equipment such as 
power cord, heating/cooling hoses etc. in addition to the pure instrument 
dimensions. 
8.1 Noise measurement 
The noise measurement was run under normal operating conditions over the entire 
speed range of the instrument. The measurement was carried out at a distance of 
41 meter and a height of 1.6 meters. 
The measured equivalent continuous sound pressure level is 
Leq < 70 dB(A) 
42- — — - ~~ MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E __Mopaling 
9 Mounting 
9.1 Safety notes concerning mounting 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Improper mounting may cause danger of injury to the personnel and risk of 
damage to the instrument. 
> All mounting work on the Brabender instrument may only be carried out with 
care by technically skilled personnel! 
9.2 Requirements to the place of mounting 
Mount the Brabender instrument in a closed room where it is protected from 
weather factors. 
© Do not mount the Brabender instrument near heat sources (heating, presses, 
etc.). 
6 The intended base for mounting the instrument must be 
- even and plane 
= clean 
- strong enough to carry the instrument 
e Make sure that the Brabender instrument is protected against vibration (make 
sure the instrument is stable!). 
e The connection and adaptation points for power supply to the instrument must 
be as near as possible to the mounting place of the instrument. 
@ Concerning power supply data, please refer to chapter 8 "Technical 
Data” 
439.3 Setup and assembly 
9.3.1 Leveling the instrument 
i #3} a Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
The instrument is heavy! Danger of injury and risk of damage to the instrument 
when lifting or moving the instrument. 
> Always lift or move the instrument with a suitable lifting device or with two 
or more persons! 
1. Make sure to remove all covering hoods and protective films. 
ee By means of a suitable lifting device or with two or more persons, place the 
instrument onto a sturdy, vibration-free working surface. 
3. Put a bubble level onto the instrument in order to check whether it is leveled 
exactly horizontally. 
4. If this is not the case, slightly move the device or the mobile frame, if equipped, 
or compensate for depressions in the mounting surface by placing e.g. thin 
metal shims under the feet until the device is exactly horizontal. 
5. Make sure that the device stands firmly and safely. 
MetaStation 4E_Mounting 
MetaStation 4E 9.3.2 Removing the shipping fixture - SP oe Loosen the locknuts on the shipping fixture. 
Unscrew the threaded rod from the clutch. 
Unscrew the two knurled nuts on the shipping fixture. 
Remove the shipping fixture. 
@ Keep all parts of the shipping fixture for a possible future shipment of 
the device (for example for repair purposes). 
Instead of the threaded rod, turn the screw from the accessory kit into the 
central bore of the clutch in order to fix the clutch half on the driving shaft. 
Screw the knurled nuts onto the stud bolts on the mounting surface again. 
If you do not want to mount a measuring head to the drive unit immediately, 
put the black cover hood from the accessory kit onto the motor shaft of the 
clutch. 
Fig. 14: Shipping fixture 
1 Clutch of the drive unit 4 Shipping fixture 
2 Threaded rod § Knurled nuts 
3 Lock nuts 
4546 9.4 Power supply connection 
Danger to life, danger of serious injuries due to electrocution! 
Improper grid connection may lead to overvoltage and cable fire and can cause 
damage to the instrument! In case of a damaged cable and/or power plug, live 
parts may be exposed! 
Danger of serious injury or death due to direct or indirect contact with live parts or 
connections! 
> 
1. Before connecting the instrument to the power supply, make sure that the 
line is equipped with a fault current circuit breaker (RCD), minimum type B 
[30 mA], and that the line voltage and frequency match data given on the 
name plate! 
Switch off the instrument before connecting it to the power supply! 
Make sure that the power cable and plug are in a perfect and technically 
safe condition and are not damaged! 
Only connect the Brabender instrument to a socket with a protective earth 
contact (PE)! 
Avoid a tripping hazard when laying the power cable! Highlight any tripping 
positions! 
Do not expose the power cable and the plug to humidity! 
Make sure that the instrument has been switched off. 
Connect the power cable of the instrument to a socket with a protective earth 
contact (PE). 
MetaStation 4E9.5 Mounting of measuring heads 
PO Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Danger of serious injuries and entanglement hazard by a measuring head 
suddenly starting when mounting the measuring head while the drive unit is on. 
Danger of burns and of damage to the heaters due to uncontrolled heating of the 
measuring head when mounting the measuring head to a live drive unit. 
> Switch off the drive unit before mounting or dismantling the measuring 
head! 
> Never mount or dismantle the measuring head when the drive unit is on! 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
The measuring head may overturn. Danger of injury, risk of damage to the 
measuring head when it overturns or falls down. 
> Secure the measuring head with your hands as long as it has not yet been 
fixed tightly to the drive unit! 
v4 Ensure to always wear work shoes with protective caps when working on 
the instrument system! 
© Concerning mounting of the different measuring heads, please refer to the 
corresponding separate instruction manual of the measuring head and of the 
docking station, if equipped, and to the mounting instructions of the adapters, 
if required. 
9.5.1 Mounting of measuring heads up to YoM 08/2008 
For mounting Brabender measuring heads up to model 08/2008, various adapters 
may be required, depending on the measuring head and the year of mounting (e.g. 
clutch adapter, encoder box for instrument recognition and torque limitation, adapter 
for safety device). 
@ Please contact the Brabender Service in such case. 
etaStation 4E 479.5.2 Preparations for mounting a measuring mixer 
9.5.2.1 Mounting the mixer supporting fork 
& The mixer supporting fork (ID no. 6 90 199) serves for safe deposition of the 
mixer bowl of series 30/50 measuring mixers. 
fl; Unscrew the two hexagon nuts M10 of the stud bolts on the underside of the 
mounting surface of the drive unit and remove them with their washers. 
2: Mount the mixer supporting fork from below onto the stud bolts and screw 
them from below to the underside of the mounting surface using the two 
hexagon nuts M10 and the washers. 
Fig. 15: | Mounting the mixer supporting fork 
1 Hexagon nuts M10 
MetaStation 4E‘MetaStation 4E 9.5.2.2 Mounting the mixer support {additional equipment) 
@ The mixer support (additional equipment, ID no. 6 19 150) serves for safe 
deposition of both the mixer front plate and the bowl of series 30/50 measuring 
mixers. It is equipped with a drawer for the disposal of product from the 
measuring mixer. 
If screwed in, unscrew the four M5 Allen screws on the underside of the 
mounting surface of the drive unit. 
Fig. 16: Underside of the mounting surface 
1 M65 Alfen screws 
Use the four Allen screws to fix the mixer support to the underside of the 
mounting surface of the drive unit. 
!) The nut of the left stud bolt must fit into the corresponding recess of the 
mixer support (see fig. below, green arrow). 
Fig. 17: | Mounting the mixer support 
1 Allen screws for fixing the 
mixer support 
499.5.3 CAN connection 
OC — Risk of property damage! 
Live connection or disconnection of CAN bus cables may cause short-circuit and, 
as a consequence, cause damage or destruction of CAN bus modules. 
> Before connecting the CAN bus cable, make sure that the CAN bus cable and 
plug are in an operationally safe condition (visual check)! 
> Before connecting or disconnecting the CAN bus cable, make sure that the 
isolator or power switches of all instruments in the system are position "0" 
(OFF)! 
9.5.3.1 CAN connection of measuring mixers 
@ Measuring mixers are no CAN modules and do not have any CAN connection 
of their own. 
1. If the drive unit is the only CAN module (this is the standard case with 
measuring mixers without docking station): 
Plug the terminal resistor onto the connection CAN-OUT on the connection 
panel of the drive unit and fix it with the two lateral screws. 
2. In case of downstream CAN modules (e.g. docking station or a conductivity meter): 
> Use the CAN connection cable to connect the connection CAN-OUT of 
the drive unit to the connection CAN-IN of the subsequent CAN module. 
> Plug the terminal resistor onto the connection CAN-OUT of the last CAN 
module in the system and fix it with the two lateral screws. 
: = teins = 1 
HOHOE® 22% 
Fig. 18: Connection panel 
1 Connection CAN-OUT 
MetaStation 4EExamples of a CAN connection of measuring mixers: 
Fig. 19: | Connection of CAN modules (examples) 
1 Terminal resistor 
9.5.3.2 CAN connection of measuring extruders 
MetaStation 4E Measuring extruders are no CAN modules and do not have any CAN 
connection of their own. The CAN connection is effected through the pressure 
transducers mounted in the measuring extruder and through the controller of 
a feeder, if equipped. 
Concerning the CAN connection of measuring extruders, please also refer to 
the separate instruction manual of the respective measuring extruder. 
If the terminal resistor has been plugged onto the connection CAN-OUT on 
the connection panel of the drive unit, unlock and disconnect it. 
Operation without docking station: 
> Use the CAN connection cable to connect the connection CAN-OUT of 
the drive unit to the connection CAN-IN of the subsequent CAN module 
(feeder or the first pressure transducer in the measuring extruder). 
Operation with docking station: 
> Use the CAN connection cable to connect the connection CAN-OUT of 
the drive unit to the connection CAN-IN of the docking station. 
> Connect the connection CAN-OUT of the docking station to the 
connection CAN-IN of the subsequent CAN module (feeder or the first 
pressure transducer in the measuring extruder). 
Connect any further CAN modules (further pressure transducers and/or 
downstream modules) likewise via the CAN connection cable. 
Plug the terminal resistor onto the connection CAN-OUT of the last CAN 
module in the system and fix it with the two lateral screws.Examples of a CAN connection of measuring extruders: 
Fig. 20: | Connection of CAN modules (examples) 
1 Terminal resistor 
52 MetaStation 4E10 Start-up 
10.1 Safety notes concerning start-up 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Improper start-up of the instrument involves the danger of injury to the personnel 
and the risk of damage to the instrument. 
> Commissioning of the Brabender instrument may only be performed by 
qualified operating personnel! 
& For starting up the measuring system, please also refer to the separate 
instruction manuals of all other system components and of the software! 
10.2 Preparations, switching on 
13 Check all connections and fittings for proper seat and tightness. 
2: Make sure that the device stands firmly and safely. 
Make sure for correct CAN connection. Ensure that the terminal resistor has 
been plugged onto the CAN-OUT connection of the last CAN module in the 
CAN bus. 
4. Make sure that the 12-pole plug of the safety device of the measuring head 
has been connected properly to the connection "Safety Device" on the drive 
unit. 
5. Make sure that the 8-pole plug of the automatic torque limitation of the 
measuring head has been connected properly to the connection “Torque limit 
key" of the drive unit. 
6. For operation with a measuring mixer: 
Make sure that the two cables of the 2-hand control device of the measuring mixer 
have been connected properly to the connections "2-Hand Safety Device". 
ts Make sure that all emergency motor stop buttons and emergency shut-off 
switches are free and easily accessible. 
8. If not yet done, connect the power cord of the instrument to the power supply. 
9. If not yet done, switch on the instrument. 
‘MetaStation 4E 5354 10.3. Presettings in the MetaBridge software at initial start-up 
When the internal PC is started for the first time, some basic presettings need to be 
made once before the measuring program as such can be started. 
1. If not yet done, switch the Brabender device on. 
> The internal PC boots. On the touchscreen or on the external terminal, 
the following windows appear one after the other: 
Fig. 21: Welcome screen 
v 
Tietabrdge 
Fig. 22: - Title screen 
Vv 
MetaStation 4EPlease setect a lenguage... 
me = Si iio —— = —- | Fig. 23: Language selection 
2: Tap the desired language. 
@ The language can be changed at any time in the program. 
> The following window appears. 
Data protection declaration 
rabender@braberdercom, +49(0}203 7788-0 on this website (hereinstter (charred to 25 “Provic ‘The legal basis for dete protection con be found in the Germnan Federal Qata Pravection Act (BDSG) and the German Telemedia Act (TMG). 
Access Data / Server Log Files 
Fig. 24: Privacy statement 
3. Read the privacy statement completely, then tap "Accept" 
> The following window appears: 
Please select the current date 
< June 2016 > 
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 
1 2 38 @ 
5 6 7 8 9 0 11 
12 13 14 «15 
19 20 21 22 
26 27 28 29 30 
ES Ea 
Fig. 25: — Setting the date Start-up 
4. Set the current date, then tap "Next". 
> The following window appears: 
Please select the current time 
wouRS powasTes secon. 
03 
Fig. 26: Setting the time 
5. Set the current time, then tap "Next" 
> The following window appears: 
Create an administrator account 
User, 
Enter a user name 
Repeat password __ 
eat password. 
Fig. 27: Creating an administrator account 
6. Fill in this window completely, then tap "Finish". 
@ The secret question and answer are needed in case you forgot your 
password for logging in again in your account and setting a new 
password. 
> The presettings for initial startup are now completed. The start screen 
of the Brabender MetaBridge appears. 
7 If a software was purchased separately, you still need to activate the license 
number and to install the MetaStation in the software. 
> Upon license activation, installation of the device and log-in, the start 
screen of the respective device appears. 
8. If applicable, make further ‘presettings (language, units, etc.) on the tile 
"Options" 
56 ~ MetaStation 4ECheck function of all 
safety devices every 
day before starting 
work! 
MetaStation 4E crn 
10.4 Functional check of the safety devices 
@ Make a functional check of all safety devices every day before starting work! 
10.4.1 Safety switch and two-hand control device 
& For checking the safety device and the two-hand control device of the 
measuring head (two-hand control device only with measuring mixers), please 
refer to the separate instruction manual of the measuring head. 
10.4.2 Emergency motor stop button 
4. If not yet done, turn on the device. 
> The internal PC initiates and, after a few seconds, the start screen 
appears. 
2. Press the "Start" key. 
> The "Start" key lights up. 
3. Press down the emergency motor stop button with your hand. 
> The emergency motor stop button lights up. 
> The "Start" key must go off. 
4. Press the "Start” key. 
> The "Start" key must not light up again, that means that the instrument 
must not start. 
@ If the "Start" key does not go off, the emergency motor stop button may be 
defective. 
as Risk of injury in case of a defective emergency motor stop button! 
If the emergency motor stop button is defective, the drive motor cannot be stopped 
quickly in case of emergency - risk of injury. 
If the emergency motor stop button is defective: 
> Immediately switch off the instrument! 
> Inform the Brabender-Service dept. (see chapter 2 “Contact")! 
> Do not start-up the instrument! 
5. To restart the device, slightly turn the emergency motor stop button until it 
pops out. 
6. Wait at least 3 s in order to reactivate the safety relay. 
Press the "Start" key in order to reactivate the drive unit. 
> The "Start" key lights up again. 
5710.4.3 Emergency shut-off switch 
f. When the device is on, turn the emergency shut-off switch counter-clockwise 
from position "I" to position "0" 
Fig. 28: | Emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) 
> Turning the emergency shut-off switch to position "0" must immediately 
cut off power supply to the machine system, that means all displays 
must go off and the motor, if running, must stop immediately. 
@ If the machine system is not separated immediately and completely 
from power supply upon actuation of the emergency shut-off switch, the 
emergency shut-off switch may be defective. 
Risk of injury in case of a defective emergency shut-off switch! 
If the emergency shut-off switch is defective, the drive motor cannot be stopped 
quickly in case of emergency - risk of injury. 
If the emergency shut-off switch is defective: 
> 
> 
> Immediately cut off power supply to the instrument! 
Inform the Brabender Service dept. (see chapter 2 "Contact")! 
Do not start up the instrument! 
To restart the device upon activation of the emergency shut-off switch, turn 
the emergency shut-off switch back to position "I". 
> The MetaBridge software restarts. 
Press the "Start" key in order to reactivate the drive unit. 
> The "Start" key lights up again. 
> The system can now be taken into operation. 
© For starting, see chapter 11 "Setup and operation”. 
MetaStation 4E_ Setup and operation 
11 Setup and operation 
@ For running and setting up the entire measuring system it is imperative to read 
the instruction manuals of all other system components and of the software! 
11.1. Daily work before start of operation 
11.1.1 MetaBridge fog-in 
AL, Switch on the device. 
> The internal computer starts automatically. 
> After a few seconds, the log-in window appears on the touchscreen or 
terminal: 
iiietaByis dge 
Mile 
rasmre fem yer mens 
Kane me togged in 
Fig. 29: Log-in window 
2. Log in as follows: 
If you already have an account, enter your user name and password and tap 
“Log in". 
> The start screen appears. 
You do not have an account yet haben, tap the text “No account? Sign up 
now.” under the field "Log in" 
> The log-in window appears: 
ivietaBriage 
Fig. 30: Log-in window 
Fill in all entry fields of this window, then tap "Create". 
> The log-in window appears. 
Enter your user name and password and tap “Log in”. 
> The start screen appears. 
MetaStation 4E 5960 11.2 Daily work before start of operation 
10. If not yet done, turn on the Brabender device. 
Check the function of the safety devices acc. to chapter 10.4 “Functional 
check of the safety devices”. 
Make sure that the interior of the measuring head is perfectly clean. 
Make sure that the mixer blades and extruder screw(s), respectively, have 
been locked properly. 
Make sure that all control thermocouples have been mounted properly in the 
respective heating zones. 
gli The springs of the control thermocouples must have a slight tension 
when locked. 
Make sure that all contro! thermocouples have been connected properly to the 
temperature controller of the respective zone. 
Make sure that all heater cables and heating/cooling hoses, respectively, have 
been connected properly and that the hoses, if equipped, are tight. 
Prepare the loading chute/feeder of the measuring head. 
i) See chapter "Setup and operation" of the separate instruction manual 
of the measuring head. 
For measuring extruders (if mounted): 
Open cooling water supply to the feed zone. 
Start the Brabender measuring program. 
MetaStation 4E11.3 Running a measurement 
11.3.1 General remarks 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Depending on the measuring head connected, there may be further dangerous 
situations to the personnel and to the machine system in addition to those 
mentioned in the present instruction manual! 
> It is imperative to read, understand and observe the safety instructions in 
the separate instruction manual of the measuring head as well! 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage due to automatic start triggered by 
the program! 
Some software programs offer the possibility of programming speed profiles. In 
this context, the machine system, controlled by the software, may start 
automatically from standstill position. 
Risk of injuriy, risk of damage to or destruction of the machine system! 
> Never put your hands into the open measuring head or insert any tools 
when the drive unit is live! 
> Always pull the power plug of the drive unit before undertaking any 
manipulations on the open measuring head! 
ESE Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
When the feed opening of the measuring head is open, rotating parts may be open! 
When several persons work simultaneously on the device, the drive unit may be 
started unintentionally while another person is still working on the measuring head 
and rotating parts are.open! 
Danger of most serious injuries, entanglement hazard! Risk of damage to or 
destruction of the measuring head by tools! 
> Never have two or more persons work simultaneously on the device! 
> Never put your hands into the feed opening when the drive unit is on! 
> Never work on the device with open long hair or with loose garments (tie, 
scarf, shawl or the like) or jewelry! 
VietaStation 4E 6162 i Danger of severe burns due to hot surfaces, risk of property damage! 
The surfaces of parts of the machine system can reach extremely high temperatures 
during operation and remain very hot even a long time after shutdown! 
Danger of severe burns, danger of damage to the contact surfaces due to hot 
machine parts! 
> Always wear suitable protective gloves when working on the machine system! 
> Always ensure there is a sufficient distance for unprotected parts of your body 
and cables, pipelines and hose lines. Keep them away from hot surfaces! 
> Do not use the machine as a storage surface! 
> Deposit hot machine parts on a suitable, heat-resistant base only! 
> Set up clear warning signs beside the hot machine parts in order to avoid 
unintentional touching by third persons! 
> Guide/dispose hot product only in appropriate, heat-resistant containers! 
@ Before starting a test with the machine system, familiarize yourself with the 
functions and menus of the software! 
@ For running a measurement, please follow the instructions in the 
corresponding chapters of the separate instruction manuals of the measuring 
head, of the Brabender measuring program and of the additional equipment, 
if equipped.12 Cleaning 
@ The instrument does not need any special cleaning. In order to provide for 
proper operation of the entire system, it must, however, always be kept clean 
and dry. 
a) For cleaning the measuring head, please refer to the separate instruction 
manual of the measuring head. 
MetaStation 4E 63Cleaning 
64 WMetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E 13 Maintenance 
13.1 Safety notes concerning maintenance 
Cee Risk of property damage due to improper maintenance! 
> Maintenance work on the Brabender instrument is only to be carried out by 
instructed personnel! 
@ To ensure a correct maintenance of the Brabender instrument, the Brabender 
Service offers a maintenance contract to be purchased. 
Please contact the Brabender Service department to do so (see chapter 2 
“Contact"). 
13.2 Bearings 
The instrument has got a lifetime lubrication. It is not necessary to exchange any 
lubricants. 
am Nevertheless, even bearings with lifetime lubrication are subject to aging. The 
service life of the motor and gear bearings under normal operating conditions 
is about 15,000 operating hours. 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage due to leakage or wear! 
Leaks on the bearings may cause damage to the bearings! Wear on the bearings 
causes damage to the machine! 
> If any leakage is detected, switch off the device immediately and do not 
start it again! 
> Immediately inform the Brabender Service dept. (see chapter 2 "Contact')! 
> Have the bearings checked every 15,000 operating hours at the latest by a 
Brabender service technician! 
65Maintenance 
Fig. 31: 13.3 Fan(s) 
13.3.1 Position, function 
On the terminal side of the device, two fans are mounted behind the ventilation grille 
for aeration of the motor and the electronics. Fresh air from outside is taken in 
through the ventilation grille on the right side which is blown out again by the fans 
through the ventilation grille on the terminal side (see fig. below). 
The filter mats behind the two ventilation grilles need to be checked for contamination 
in regular time intervals in order to provide for sufficient aeration of the motor and 
the electronics. 
[NOTICE Risk of property damage due to insufficient motor ventilation! 
A contaminated filter mat may affect ventilation of the electrics and of the motor! 
Insufficient ventilation of the electrics and of the motor may cause overheating 
and, as a consequence, damage to the electrics and motor shut-off! 
> Depending on the ambient conditions, check function of the fan(s) in regular 
time intervals, but not later than once per month! 
> Clean the filter mat of the air supply ventilation grille at least once per month 
and replace it, if necessary! 
> In case of a defective fan, immediately shut off the device and do not start 
it again! 
= 
Position of filter fan and ventilation grilles 
1 Ventilation grille with 2 air 2 Air supply ventilation grille 
exhaust filter fans 
MetaStation 4EMaintenance 
13.3.2 Checking the filter mat 
1. Press onto the pressure point(s) of the ventilation grille in order to release it. 
2. Dismanitle the ventilation grille laterally. : il HULA Hn HNN AN 
Fig. 32: Dismantling the ventilation grille (example) 
1 Ventilation grille 3 Filter mat 
2 Pressure point 
Remove the filter mat from the ventilation grille. 
In case of normal contamination: 
> Carefully rinse the filter mat with clear water. If necessary, add some 
mild detergent. 
> Have the filter mat dry completely. 
In case of strong contamination: 
> Replace the filter mat. 
5. Visually check the fan(s) behind the ventilation grille on the terminal side for 
contamination. 
6. In case of visible contamination, clean the fan(s) with a vacuum cleaner and 
a paintbrush. 
re Put the cleaned or new filter mat onto the ventilation grille. 
8. Remount the ventilation grille and press to lock it. 
9: Check the function of the fan(s) by means of a thin sheet of paper: 
> Hold the paper close to the air supply grille - the paper must be sucked 
towards the grille and must not fall down. 
@ If there is no air current, the respective fan may be defective. In this 
case, please contact the Brabender Service department (see chapter 2 
"Contact"). 
MetaStation 4E 67Maintenance 
se " MetaStation 4£MetaStation 4E Trouble-shooting 
14 Trouble-shooting 
This chapter lists some possible troubles which may occur during operation of the 
Brabender instrument and measures to be taken to eliminate these troubles. 
Danger to life from electric shock, risk of damage to the instrument! 
Improper maintenance may damage or destruct the instrument. Improper handling 
of electric components implies danger to life or the risk of most serious injuries by 
direct or indirect contact to live parts or contacts! 
> Work on electrical equipment is only to be carried out by authorized 
electricians! 
> Maintenance work exceeding the work described in the present instruction 
manual or requiring opening of the instrument is only to be carried out by a 
Brabender service technician! 
> Before opening the instrument or doing any other electric work, always 
disconnect the power plug! 
a Danger of severe burns due to hot surfaces, risk of property damage! 
The surfaces of parts of the machine system can reach extremely high temperatures 
during operation and remain very hot even a long time after shutdown! 
Danger of severe burns, danger of damage to the contact surfaces due to hot 
machine parts! 
> Always wear suitable protective gloves when working on the machine system! 
> Always ensure there is a sufficient distance for unprotected paris of your body 
and cables, pipelines and hose lines. Keep them away from hot surfaces! 
> Do not use the machine as a storage surface! Vv Deposit hot machine parts on a suitable, heat-resistant base only! 
> Set up clear warning signs beside the hot machine parts in order to avoid 
unintentional touching by third persons! 
> Guide/dispose hot product only in appropriate, heat-resistant containers! 
69No. | Error Cause/measure 
1 Device cannot 
be started Cause: 
@ Wrong supply voltage 
C7 No power supply 
e Emergency motor stop button activated (lights) 
e Emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) in position "0" 
° CAN cable not properly connected (CAN-IN and CAN-OUT and/or no terminal 
resistor plugged onto CAN-OUT connection) 
e Safety switch of the measuring head not connected 
e Motor overheated 
e Fuse released or defective 
e Inverter error 
Measures: 
T Check whether the supply voltage matches the data on the name plate. 
2. Check whether the power plug of the machine has been connected properly 
to a power supply outlet with protection contact. 
3. Ensure that the isolator switch is in position "I". 
4. Check whether the emergency motor stop button has been actuated (pressed 
down) by drawing the emergency motor stop button upwards. 
@ The emergency motor stop button lights when actuated (pressed down). 
5. Check whether the CAN connection cables have been connected properly to 
the connections CAN-IN and CAN-OUT of all CAN modules or, if the device 
MetaStation-4E is the last CAN module in the system, check whether the 
terminal resistance has been plugged onto the connection CAN-OUT of the 
device (see also chapter 9.5.3 “CAN connection”). 
6. Check whether the cable of the safety device of the measuring head has been 
connected properly to the connection "Safety Device” on the front side of the 
instrument. 
hes Check whether the cable of the automatic torque limitation of the measuring 
head has been connected properly to the connection “Torque limit key”. 
8. In case of operation with a measuring mixer: 
Make sure that the two plugs of the two-hand contro! device have been 
connected properly to the corresponding connections "2-Hand Safety Device”. 
MetaStation 4ENo. | Error Cause/measure 
Danger to life, risk of injury due to voltage leading parts! 
When access to the electric modules is open and the isolator switch is on, live 
parts are open! {1] [continued] 
MetaSiation 4E > 
> 
> 
10. Work on electrical equipment is only to be carried out by authorized electricians! 
Never touch any modules inside the instrument as long as the instrument 
is switched on! 
As long as power supply to the instrument is on, functional checks of electric 
or electronic modules inside the instrument are only to be carried out 
visually and only by authorized electricians! 
Dismantle the ventilation grille and the filter mat on the right side in order to 
check the electric components inside. 
e& See chapter 13.3.2 “Checking the filter mat”. 
Unscrew the fixing screws of the protective grille and remove it. 
> The HBM load cell, the safety relay, the power pack ant the overload 
release are now visible. 
Fig. 33: Electric modules behind the ventilation grille 
1 HBM load cell 4 Power pack 
2 LED onthe HBM loadceli 5 LED "DC ok" on the power pack 
3 Safety relay 6 Overload release 
Check the HBM load cell: The LED in the left top must light in yellow. 
Check the power pack: The LED "DC ok" must light in green (see fig. above). 
Check the overload release: The switches must show to the top. 
Check the safety relay: Depending on the instrument state, the LEDs on the 
safety relay must light as shown in the following schematics. 
® =on B= of 
@ If the LEDs on the safety relay do not light as shown in the following 
schematics, please contact the Brabender Service (see chapter 2 
"Contact"). 
71No. | Error Cause/measure 
[1] [continued] 
Status with measuring mixer type 50 EHT: 
e Power plug of the drive unit connected 
e lsolator switch in position "I" 
* Emergency motor stop button NOT pressed (button does not light) 
C) “Start" key pressed (the "Start" key lights) 
e Connection "Safety Device" plugged in 
e Connection "Torque limit key" plugged in 
e Connection "2-Hand Safety Device" plugged in 
1 tase 7 
2 COCK OC ICO OK Fr 8 
‘@e@eleeee: 
9 
3 10 
4 11 
12 
5 13 
6 14 
Fig. 34: Correct status display on the safety relay with meas. mixer type 50 EHT 
1 X11 7 X13 
2 X12 8 X14 
3 (X12) IN 13 14 P1 P2 9 RUN (must flash in yellow) 
4 OUT K1 K2 07 02 10 INO1 02 03 04 (X14) 
(X22) (X21) 11. INO5 06 07 08 (X23) 
5 X21 12 INO9 10 11 12 (X24) 
6 X22 13. X23 
14. X24 
72 MetaStation 4ENo. | Error 
{1] [continued] Cause/measure 
Status with measuring extruder 19/25 D: 
e Power plug of the drive unit connected 
e Isolator switch in position “I" 
€ Emergency motor stop button NOT pressed (button does not light) 
° "Start" key pressed (the "Start" key lights) 
o Connection "Safety Device" plugged in 
e Connection “Torque limit key" plugged in 
i 
2 8 
9 
3 10 
Fl is 
= 
s 
4 11 
12 
5 13 
6 14 
Fig. 35: Correct status display on the safety relay with meas. extruder 19/25 D 
1 Xt 7 x13 2 x12 8 X14 3 (X12)IN13 14 Pt P2 9 RUN (must flash in yellow) 
4 OUTK1 K2 01 02 10 INO1 02 03 04 (X14) (X22) (X21) 11 INOS 06 07 08 (x23) 5 x24 12 INO9 10 11 12 (X24) 6 X22 13. X23 14. X24 
AS.No. | Error Cause/measure 
{1] [continued] 
15. Check the over-/undervoltage relay: The green one of the three status LEDs 
must light. 
G@ Glowing of the left one of the two red LEDs ("<U'") indicates low voltage, 
glowing of the right one of the two red LEDs (">U") indicates high 
voltage. 
Fig. 36: | Over-/undervoitage relay 
1 Over-/undervoitage relay 2 Status LEDs 
16. If all of these checks were positive, remount the protective grille and fix it with 
the four screws. 
17. _Remount the ventilation grille with the filter mat and press to lock it. 
18. Unscrew and remove the four screws fixing the cover of the device on the rear 
side in order to get access to further electric and electronic modules. 
————— EE Danger of injury by falling cover! 
The cover is just clamped on the front side and cannot be secured when open. 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage by a falling cover! 
> Use both of your hands to open the cover! 
> Do not open the cover too far in order to prevent it from tipping over and 
falling down! 
> Grip the cover with both of your hands when opening it and holding it open 
in order to prevent it | from slipping off and failing down!No. | Error Cause/measure 
[1] [continued] 
19. Grip the cover with both of your hands and tilt it open with care. 
@ There is a recess on the rear side of the cover to facilitate opening. 
> The inverter and other electric and electronic modules are now visible 
(see fig. below). 
1 
§ 
2 
3 
6 
4 ——— ,' = 
Fug. 37: Electronic modules under the cover 
1 CAN-Bus power pack (24 V) 4 Inverter 
2 Power pack internal PC (5V) 5 USB hub 
3 Temperature controller - 6 Melt temperature module 
20. Check the inverter: In case of an error, the inverter display shows a clear text 
error message and an error code. 
@ In case of an error, please contact the Brabender Service department 
and state this error code. 
ct] Please also refer to the separate instruction manual of the inverter. 
21. Check the two power packs of the CAN bus (left, 24 V) and of the internal PC 
(right, 5 V): The LEDs "DC ok" must light in green on both power packs. 
22. Check the temperature controller module: The LED "Power" must light in 
yellow, the LEDs “Run” and "Bus" must flash in yellow. 
23. Check the melt temperature module: The LED “ON CAN" must light in green. 
24. Check the USB hub priifen: The LED "PWR" must light in green. 
MetaStation 4E 75Troubleshooting 
76 : ee Hieta Station 415 Repair 
Su Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Improper repair work may lead to the danger of injury to the personnel and the risk 
of damage to the instrument! 
> Repair work on the Brabender instrument is only to be carried out by 
Brabender service technicians or by skilled personnel authorized for this 
work by Brabender! 
If the Brabender instrument needs to be repaired, please contact the Brabender 
Service department. 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG 
KulturstraBe 49 - 51 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
# Phone +49-203-7788-131 
c= E-mail: service@brabender.com 
North American Regions 
C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
@ Phone 201-343-8425 
& E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
\VietaStation 4E 77Repair 
es 7 pee ENS ssn : ear CTMetaStation 4E 16 Disposal 
The owner of the instrument is responsible for ecologically sound disposal of the 
Brabender instrument or of parts thereof. 
@ In case of a necessary disposal of the Brabender instrument or of parts 
thereof, we recommend entrusting an authorized disposal company with the 
disposal of the machine/machine parts to make sure that the local regulations 
concerning collection, recycling, and disposal as well as those concerning 
documentation are observed. 
79Aispeesl 
80 a ~ MetaStation 4BAnnex 
17 Annex 
17.1 Accessories, spare parts, additional equipment 
For accessories, spare parts and additional equipment, please contact the 
Brabender Service in case of need. 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG 
KulturstraBe 49 - 51 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
@ Phone +49-203-7788-131 
ca E-mail: service@brabender.com 
North American Regions 
C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
@ Phone 201-343-8425 
G2 E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
17.2 Electrical documents, wiring diagrams 
The electrical documents and wiring diagrams of the Brabender instrument are 
included separately in the scope of delivery. 
‘MetaStation 4E 81Annex 
17.3 Electric interferences 
The close arrangement of electric instruments in an electrically disturbed 
environment may cause electric interferences on the power supply connection which 
require potential equalization. 
Example no. 1: Potential equalization with separate ground cables (for separate 
wall outlets or separate distribution boxes) 
net n=2 _n=x ney 
Farinograpt? Viscograph-E Amylograph-E MT-C 
x | 
1 1 
2 Z 
Fig. 38: Potential equalization with separate ground cables 
1 Power cord 3 Connect ground cable for 
2 Wall outlet potential equalization 
Example no. 2: Potential equalization without separate ground cable (with a 
single, common power outlet extension) 
ast n=2 Rex ney 
| Ferinograpt? | Viscograph= | | Amylogreph | MTC | 
oi | = ¥ a | 
we 10 
w= 11 9 
Fig. 39: Potential equalization with common power outlet extension 
1 Power cord 6 Internal static bypass 
2 Wall outlet 7 AC to DC rectifier 
3 Potential equalization with 8 DC to AC inverter 
power outlet extension 9 Battery 
4 UPS: if required, for weak power 10 Normal operation 
supply grid 11 ~—~—~-Battery power 
5 IMPORTANT: Use double- 
conversion UPS! 
82 MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E Example no. 3: Potential equalization with separate ground cables (for different 
voltages and separate wall outlets) 
nat n=2 nex ney a LES a + ca) Fa 7 
< om | 
CEE CEE CEE CEE 
3x400V 230V t 230V 230V 
3 
Fig. 40: Potential equalization with separate ground cables 
i Power cord 6 Internal static bypass 
2 Wall outlet 7 AC to DC rectifier 
3 Connect ground cable for 8 DC to AC inverter 
potential equalization 9 Battery 
4 UPS: if required, for weak power 10 Normal operation 
supply grid 11 ~—~—Battery power 
5 IMPORTANT: Use double- 
conversion UPS! 
83Annex 
a * MetaStation 4&‘etaStation 4E 18 Index 
c 
CUMENE SUPP Ycseerccnssecenmmnencnescares 41 
D 
DIMENSIONS iexcccesesccsecescavesessrcecces 42 
E 
PIGGIOORY cncncmmonmnnmamanscme 41 
Emergency motor stop button 
Functional check..........0cceeee 57 
Position, function ......0..:ccceee 18 
Emergency shut-off switch 
Position, function «0.0.0... cee 20 
F 
Fan 
Checking the filter mat................ 67 
Position and function 
Filter mat 
CHECKING vccsenvererecnesemmrncconeaie 67 
Front side... ees 31, 33 
M 
Measuring mixer 
MOUNTING xcs socexseeereerceeeererecee 48 
MetaBridge 
Creating an administrator account 
Sr Cr rT ere 56 
Language selection «0.0.0... 55 Index 
PresettingS -.....0.0.....cceceeeeeee 54 
Running down the PC ......... 38 
Setting the date 
Setting the time... 
Start screen 
Mounting surface.............. cee 
R 
Rear side 
Right side 
s 
Safety device oo... eee 21 
Safety devices 
Automatic torque limitation......... 22 
Emergency motor stop button... 18, 
57 
Emergency shut-off switch ... 20, 58 
Magnetic safety device............... 21 
T 
Terminal side... 31, 33 
Torque limitation... 22 
Two-hand control device ............... 22 
w 
WIGN ssccccctsesnacnasescensrescecees 42 
85index 
‘86 “"MetaStation 4ESS [ i ——— I 5 TI 6 i a og Device 815670 MetaStation 4E 
| 
B | ® Order: 
fe 
ay fg@ 
B26 
ig Brabender’ GmbH & Co. KG 
ul : Kulturstr. 49-51 47055 Duisburg Germany 
He ‘'&@ Phone:+49 -203 -7788-0 [1 brabender@.brabender.com 
ail Product(MetaStatin4E 
= Model xf] _vom[_] ie v[Sx40ovaNePE] v2 [50160] xw[65 | a[_%0 ] 
; Diagram | 815670E000-04 185 1/min 
§ x 
i ial, Ef BF 
| == tem | Brabender| —_[Deckbiet _ —— 
| Fatwd | Jove Dam | oe | Nam Tum. [ent = Tee Hi f | Bi-Aneohi20 
— I 2 ——j 3 I 4 I 5 t 6 I 7 ] ai I 2. 
version date user document type 
4_Deckblatt 
| _ List of Contents 
3.0_Stromlaufplan 
3.0_Stromlaufplan 
3.0_Stromlaufplan 
3.0_Stromlaufplan 
3.0_Stromlaufplan 
|__3.0_Stromlaufplan 
3.0_Stromlaufplan 
3.0_Stromlaufplan 
__3.0_Stromlaufplan 
3.0_Stromlaufplan 
6_Betriebsmittelliste 
6_Betriebsmittelliste 
a ———— 
—————— List of Contents i i 
sheet description 
| | 1 | _Deckblatt Cover sheet 
| 2 Inhaltsverzeichnis List of contents 
3 | Power supply ____ Wiring Diagramm 
8 4 Power supply — Wiring Diagram — 
5 \__ Safety circuit Wiring Diagramm 
6 Safety circuit Wiring Diagram 
7 Speed controller Wiring Diagramm 
| || 8 Speed controller Wiring Diagramm 
| 9 Temperature controller Wiring Diagramm 
10 | Temperature controller Wiring Diagramm 
A fe 11 Stocktemperature measurement Wiring Diagramm 
| ile 12 CAN-Bus and Torque measurement Wiring Diagramm 
F} iz : 13 CAN-Bus and Torque measurement Wiring Diagramm 
u a 3 14 PC-Device Wiring Diagramm 
Had 3 15 __PC-Device Wiring Diagram 
leg = 3||_ 16 Betriebsmittelliste Components list 
eet Hl 17 Betriebsmittelliste Components list 
m Pe ag | 18 | Betriebsmittelliste Components list 
at £25 19 Betriebsmittelliste Components list 
4 20 Betriebsmittelliste _____ Components list 6_Betriebsmittelliste 
6_Betriebsmittelliste _ m 
Far dieses Dokument und den darin dargesteltten Gegen- stand dehalten wir uns alle Rechte vor. Vervietfattigung, 
‘Bekanntgabe an Dritte oder Verwertung seines inhaltes 
sind ohne unsere ausdrilckliche Zustimmung verboten. 
© BRABENDER GmbH&COXG Duisburg 
ae = | Beat. i —| oat 
| 2usiand | 22.08.2020 
P.Hommes 
Sep. 3.0_Stromlaufplan 
| 3.0_Stromlaufplan 
3.0_Stromlaufplan 
6_Betriebsmittelliste 
Inhaltsverzeichnis 
List of contents 
Name | Norm npr Tent I Bat 
nmr 815670 
—— =" 15670E000-04 Bet 2 
Aman 20 | Brabender’ 
a I 5_l | 7 | 8 =" 5" 3a‘We 
reserve 
all 
rights 
in this 
document 
and 
in the 
informa~ tion 
contained 
therein. 
Reproduction, 
use 
of disclosure to third 
parties 
without 
express 
authority 
is strictly forbidden. © BRABENDER 
GmbH&CO.KG 
Oubsburg Far 
dieses 
Dokument 
und 
den 
dasin 
dargesteliten 
Gegen- 1 | I 3 L 4 5 | 6 i 8 
MMe ___ ea gag 
wre ee at 
oo 
se Neem AM 
Bit! 10 X12 fou X72. $30 T2140 X12 14a XT2 $40 X72 508 X72, 150 X12 1640 XT2. 470 Tetsu PE At 
an al un all =e 
Motor Kneader panel connection panel Pc Ventilation Heating zones panel 
| | 
MTZ a = = - = ol 
Ground panel Motor pane! Pot screw Ventilation air | Heating zones panel cover front 
6mm2 
ul ig 
01 bak SS ies We ky la 
1214 
Fil zie |, 
| XTH Al 
Ta 
“ 1,5mm? orange 
ATL 
um la | 
meee aol 
4 B® ieprneo0.t2 Adjustment 1214 2M 
PU ies juliziosly || | 
iC ae 08 a ae | 
tis 4 | | 
a cil 
over-fundervoltage 
protectionrelay 
0380 4 BK BN 
x1 & 217482 5 
ti 4 T GEE/32A 
A an! 
| a ‘Power supply SY 815670 } : 
| Brabender’ ‘Wiring Diagramm lsat s serocooo oe tnt — I 815670E000-04 fra 20 
3 I 4 T rami 6 7 [ 8 Ps gp BS OO a hl hhCE4 2 3 ] 4 im sj 8 7 8 
nae SN gy 
Age 203___Men ay 
A Rage ea 305 __Ben ay 
rps coe 2128 XT? au XT4 30 XT4 piu wat M ay 
(9,48 poet PE i | 12.450 ape se ie UMW, _P io 44 
X12 u_XT2 yo Xm ATA Hin X14 gs ai 
jt \" Pe i$. itd Lt _|fe \N t 
F HN n| ae | a | -F2 2 221647 221830 221680 218935, Power pack power supply power supply 
240W —_— — — 
100A | | = > 
“Tew Taw | ao | oo Tw [ow lo lw w tx lw lw 
Wa} Mo 
XZ sou XT 20 pe naat 
T y MOON NOTE Ga 44 94 
f g 89, A BAL 
c Hl i 
2283 CAN-GHD BAT 
33 i : H F XR ju XT jou tte X12 2 x1 pe 4200 _@ = 5.04 
22 3 z a a X72 U2 jou XT fis ie “X12 20 X14 jo Te BV ig ay 
S48 5 Bb 8 coe & 983 . 
= 8 
i] bef o/bee8s g355° KIB 3 X28 4 X08 X28 \ 
— | Pa woo Paremetersal 
in i Kad Law wy res Temp.-Controler 
it hy ‘iat i hy] WA ya (ns HOM 
hi els) ale PAN med pignia ; H 222693 \/ pe | 222693 \) oc | 222683 \/ oc | -F12) T2av Ty 44 TSN ‘yo Te "68 76 
325! = ‘ae: Sef wmis\, yp <sMc E i g | \\Param.815011-000-0 
5 : : ~~} 
Be 2} y ag 21@580 | 
388 |- |e 
a — i  — M3 M4 
i iy 2693 222693 222693 * 
ay ade a <7 on | Oauertoneinstellung 
Ma PIN - mit PIN CP gebrickt 
F 
= j Datum 22.08.2020 Brab er) Power supply Seugruppe 818670 | 
ai i en Wiring Diagram Zeichnunge Nt 815670E000-04 4 
ustand Andorng Oclum t En, =" _Bi-foasht_20 
4 3 4 | 5 ll | 6 1 8 -e = Bs1 2 = 3 4 oy 3 | 6 7 8 
Cg eT — ATM Dg gy 
14.03 b= *14204 GND XT4_ atte GND AL 
A = XT, au a X16 20 XTS_4y xia PUB ig ay 
-F12 ; 1 
241920 j ; -XT5 i -XT5 7 -XT6 i XT5 | 
4 tas lea : i F gz 
X15 Iw | _ ! X16 tw X18 tu | oXT5, aru X12 _ PASH ig By 
ae au | | | I 
TT te ae ; i ; 
ATS | -XT5 -XT6 -XT6 
8 2 3 E) 3 
KTS fa X15 140 
-XT5 -XT5 
| 
i i 
of ve pe Wea oS ou 3H Wa YE oh wm wnt YE cane) YE WS WH 
— | 
é Hl DRIVE DRIVE ' ‘ ‘ 4 
Ah Energeny START STOP ak nih 
ile ls #90 s1 J" st i" sz | | | age 2 -S0 , 7 No ad Sr Y 4 _|y = . abo + 
zee 2 oe) i 222174 SJ), 222834 Sy zeesesh— 2aszgb M F —} b 
Ae : min” Ol, Wn zg ee ees mer \ 
eee 8 : ) x3 
Bid ziss | nist | ] 283 & Fa z = Fa 
age 9 
ol fetes 22 BN We | at a2 | RO WO RO WBN aa GN wl BN ¥et GN aS GN wes GN 
S323 
25350 
— i : 3 i i , i / ; F 
; 5 4 i -XT5 -XT5 1 -XT5 -XT5 ! -XT5 -XT5 -XT6 -XT6 ' -XT5 1 “XT5 ' 
é | 6 ; 
if 2 X15) ou XT 10 X15 tin X15 180 2x78) fu xt) x16) 30 x8! X75 50 X75 ev 
; —n {133. $34, 243 141, [44 —{14a 
E HH g | F ' ' ' | ' r | ' ¥ 
aay 8 oes X24 SMC-input X24 SMC-Input j 3 X24 SMC-Input| | X24 SMC-Input X14 SMC-Input| X14 SMC-Input | X14 SMC-Input X14 SMC-input 
i ; D109 Nol Stop. UL DI TONt Stop J 13 413 ‘Dit Drive Start ‘DI12 Deve Stop D1 c2 Te Hed MO, ‘DIO Two Hand NC | (DY04 wo Hand NO l 108 Two Hod NO | 
figs _ - = 
ja i 3 i 
ae baad @} 
F 
= Brabender| Sey aie ee = Wiring Diagramm Zeihnungs Nt ‘oat 5 
Zed | Arey re ae Eat Tee ——1 815670E000-04 pans 20 
{ T 2 T 3 4 l 5 | 6 7 8 1 2. l_ 3 4 I 5 || 6 8 —— 
5.ng niet 20 X14 tt 72200 is 
15.A8 = 2AM. GNO . Bm BA 
A Jg.Ag AEE PUL X15 pan I sida _Rlstes poy A 
x16 
J 
15.39 (>t Pus! X52 PULSt 
ATG X15 tau Ltt 
. 2 Mixer safetyswitch -XT5 \ B 
nanan nae 
Fr] OF { LED ON if 
say oie “BA doris closed in 
Ls wi Ab i 
22008 por) | coma | 
| BK | WH pe sm jen oR BL - 
‘, Connector | 
cla 221996 1 | c 
ui ' i ete X21 i 1 7 | | | Eat 221378 |, Mite le le aie Fl wp. 8 oF & & e is 
S82 3 push/pull fomeed HT 8 g| 8 
233 2 Oe BN WH OYE GN RO | 
iE — Pit § 12 | x22! 
ee g . i Ki \ 
ol Fag? D g5580 a 
|__| 5 4 
X15 XT : 
stay | | —r | i xnsy ton X15" 2 F12 | x22! 
: He rv sy 4 i 1 $ a oft X28 SMC-Input| x23 SMC-Inut 
; 32 d ciestivercw | DlOBMier cose AIM14 OPO yoo 
ye ge - = 
BEL Speed controlter K3 
a F ENPO i es 3 
Bnig3 
F F 
- — [tees | zeae | Safety circuit em 545670 
[ SS | Brabender’ Wiring Diagram faeeN a Ae: = 
‘stra |For atm | Nave | Nom mm “Text [ema —— i 815670E000-04 sivas 20 
1 | 2 | 3 I 4 I 5 6 I ai- = + |1 2 Z 4 I. 5 |] 6 7 8 
Mag Te xT X22 XT xtase Ue gay 
Mate 2 X12 x24 KT maar a AL 
is Hag 228 Bats Xo X48 1 Be gay 
1h. fom Ei N X12. -XT4 a1 21286, Ne pat 
Mango TOU PE Tau AI je HTH HT te X14, $20 X74 YT yours Py 
jongti>- Buber | XT enw PULSR 
ic Cover Ki cover monitor 
cover behind control unit | pools pele J 270s | xove _ { 
A oe ne X2 nvertornodu Motor | 4 invertermodul A earn Temp-sensor ENCODER ASP 5004 X10 Power = 
Typ SDS 5075 = |Paremetersate 614589-000-00 -Ki | iC | \, | i | 
206243 | IP: 192.1083 266243 Fa apien| V | 
é ¢ _ X20Molor gE fF tspolo-sua_ | -F12 peal | = fe 
C a oh hoe on | 241920 eral 4 
232 Traou aay | x20 HDPE Var lye i 1 * xed xia | xta3 X24 
uid wis) uli ae L133 g 
reee g sel ais ¢ \ 
2e2 2 e349 
i ag wig 
0) eb ea8 Wi7 va 618558.001 38 38 ® < ) 
e FS “be (2 R38 g § ‘| 
i | Gehause M1 ja pats, 
i] uly lw tt Pe ' ' 
-| X23 SMC-Input | i i mth, | P Pa m3 | | 
3 235306 235306 : LOT Kt Seely Sop x21 
f 3 i E u B) 0 ee res men Bigg emo tine na 
Hig g €202G0176EZ508U bf Ps 4,24KW a6 55 17,517 
| 15 410,004 ns 3241mint 
j g M = 43,60Nm 
3 $e 
F 
— i NE | Datum 22,08.2020 Br, b er’ Speed controller ‘Baugruppe 815670 
— ca _ [Pm ender’ Saeed cooreller ee 
Zuctend | Andarong Seton | Name | Hoon Usp. = Eat, mit! [bi Anuahl_ 20 
4 2 I 4 | 5 I 6 Z T ‘8 iE “al a a >4 2 : T 3 4 | 5] é 8 
BABE X12 Mo 24V = até BV HOA 
AB sp * Ml gat 
A Al 
Xi Invertermodul 24VDC) X1 Invertermodul ENPO X100 Invertermodut WO X01 invertermodul YO 
SAE 5001 SAE 5001 | 
Ki | § 256243 a a , é H bees WEE fee eeard bisparegail a oe | om" aoe t iat i at toe sok 
B Tan lite xt at. min {xe | xia lia yaaa 002 == Tins ato x07 | ions Ty | etad Korat koi miONS KntAe ROL! WoL KOT? Xtal RO B 
| 
. 
+ X12) 210 | TZ atu X72 20 
XT2. 2a 
i 5 (> EPO Fema JOGSPEED 
cle C 
aoe Ed [is a2 
| a 1807 2) +a 
sue og. Filer PNR 2 |g 222182 at] 
py eke 3 241920. dud H 
| |f2F 2 D108 Kt vende 
eee 3 
BIE g 
Bag 
D bigs D get ENABLE JOGSPEED (10min-1) rere 
WW XTS Su fu tu ayo -F12 Fi = 
! Y 4 " 'Y 241920 5 
| i ‘i ! i ‘ |__°xa1 
| -XT6 | ; | | i PERS 3 xs 
| i 13 aa 
g j ak on pre ym pe pw aoe 222 
Vilas Sele e 
= 3 i 8 -X20 ‘ | & ‘ | 222152 
al 8pol.push/pull r 
FI 
i aul | Torquerange 
i u selector 
Bunks 
F iF 
———_}——_- c aie Brabender' [Speed controller orm 915870 — 
Ge, | Wiring Diagramm Teichnungs-N, Bo 8 
Zustand Radorong [oun | Name Tom | Un. Tent fen — [ i 815670E000-04 sewn 20 
1 I a) [ 3 | 4 I 5 | 6 I | 8 te os BEWe 
reserve 
all 
rights 
in this 
document 
and 
in the 
informa- @ BRABSENDER 
GmbH&CO.KG 
Duisburg on 
contained 
therein. 
Reproduction, 
use 
or disclosure to third 
parties 
without 
express 
authority 
is strictly forbidden. m 
| Far dieses Dokument und den darin dargestatiten Gegen- stand 
behalten 
wir 
uns 
alle 
Rechte 
vor. 
Vesvielfaltgura, Bekanntgabe 
an 
Dritte 
oder 
Verwertung 
seines 
inhaltes sind 
ohne 
unsere 
ausdrickliche 
Zustimmung 
verboten. © BRABENDER 
GmbH&CO 
KG 
Duisburg, IL age Xt 
7.08 88 
Tag i= 
TRB 
FAB) u 
B 
B 
” 
HTH tu PE | 2 3 4 5 7 8 S- 
TG The. Tao Oo HOA 
x Xe i HOA 
whe x14 fr 88 Be oat 
12 to 72g» X12 X12 100 X72. 300 X72 tt HT2AMl0 Sis sani 
xa 272.190 cae X72. 160 X72 shu 172.1% HN PEL gay 
x73 | x73 | x73 | x73 | -xT3 | x73 
ih z {2 2 2 2 
3 [| 4 || 6 | £6 [/ FT| £2 | aoare + rower) wou conre |S tower 4} 20NFF 
221889 221389 221389 221389 221389 221389 
| | 
‘ l K276 TE 
i— ' oe 1.84 
oe = ae 407|_TAe— 44.84 
! r | 1278 Tay, 
— ¢ =e “toe 111.81 
pis ‘ oud + ate ree 11.84 
2 2 
1 1 
¢ ; HO TB ay, 
c. lit on mete 2 2 
io ., {e . fe = 
3, ft Ka, {i 45 \w {4 6) -K7 \ 8 || 
rans |) 27038 fae | zaags | z22098 {ar zanes || ae | SSR SSR SGR SSR SSR 
oi 4 Fo 7 ‘ aids 4 | ‘ 4 4 ih ‘ ‘ 1 ait | i eS 4 1 = 
Zone 1 Zone 2 Zone 3 Zone 4 Zone 5 Zone 6 
Temperature controller maw 815670 i 
| | Brabender’ Wiring Diagramm ZelehnungesN, ay ia a 
ze = har i _ a ——I 815670E000-04 — jiscar 20 
i 4 5 il 6 | 7 8 4 | 2 L 5 4 ll é 7 8 
fake to 2t_Ut xt — Bon 
Bag t @ ies 
A 1ea8 pa kde 18 XT. Ls A 
AB Ee ATR 2th Nie 
ag 2M PE X72 {Tro oT4sidio PEL nant 
XT4.1 a 2 
#9 {I * +19 I 
y aro |"zets |" 8 | | 
—By Bj -— 
¥ ' Rano BASS 
one Comat ONS Ro aROS BALTS TempContaler Output heating 
si oil ‘Temp, Controller Output Heating ! Cooling ik 
i. es bs ie | 
ifr erri? ak ae ee rr re sw) el el ele 
old} ‘ age 
te L 
2a3 3 ‘7 \2 j2 i 
aee0 ey & A2- BQ Ad 
ol feegs -K10.K1 ye -K10.K2 | ¥—  -K10.K3 -K10.K4 7} a y eal Kare | KO) Teal al 9 
egees ! way yan : ? 220088) paanas || 2op098 wage oakil wal 
8 673307.003 673307.003 873307.003 673307.008 SR [aw SSR law SSR [ar SSR [aw SSR at el late 
1} ih " 1" " an aoe 803 808 805 08 
| i 3 F X74 | som KT4_ 010 oXT4 sim -XT4 110 i 
ii X04, sa X14, 12 XT XT 430 
é ul i pe Pe [Pe rr E 
4 g X445 8 FRRE -K10.K1 -K10.K2 -K10.K3 -K10.K4 
Hi cal a) a eG e7s307 | 673307 _|_ 673307 | 673907 _| if | AA AAA, 7 = a = 
AH - Hy B Zone Zone2 Zone3 Zone4 
BhdES 
F F 
Z Jd a | Ez — : bicLue Temperature controller mars 815670 i = — — ee amt Wiring Diagramm Zekanengs aot 10 
ustand [baum | Nemo | Hem | Lent I 815670E000-04 \anaohl 20 
1 2 l 3 = I 5 | é 7 ] 8Vie 
reserve 
all 
rights 
in this 
document 
and 
in the 
informa- 7 1 2 3 4 5 | 6 7 8 
A 
] Ramon 84.06.9437 | R2200-834.0-5-BA3-7-5 | 
R2200-834-0-5-BA3-7-5, ‘Temp.-Controfier Input TC /PT100 Zone 1-4 ‘Temp.-Controlier Input TC #PT100 Zone 5-8 | 
Ko Temp,-Controller Setting } current transformer ei “e = me - - - - | 
241885 ‘ ; -k2 ( (J ¥ t t t r ik i i t i i i “ al | u re] a ray zs Lt] rai zB | 
a tee ete te ee = a | a —— wm iT mw a ™ rid % n ® ” wo a ae LJ 
teaeeai 6 & bt bh a CS a es ee ee Se 
te te te tee we te fe 7 i te ta te ta tae 
8 
| 7m 
= tl | was no UE wi | Ro ait WA RO Pid WH RO 28 WH RD aaa RO | 
aT 
in | 
npet—21 8 
808 p72 —18 
i | 
3 Pil g Boy eo9 soy 3 9 Boy c 
uy ee LAT X10) | xt] XW | | ts | X40 XI se | |e 2igso1 | 218301 246301 ||. 2ieset | 248301 | afgsot 
3 2 Fy ey SF 4a ope +, a | a 
ay ie EP 38 Fe Intervaliton | 
ae a Helzstromaberwachung 218285 218285 218285 218285 218285 218285 
es 2 
ee @ 
Bae 
BESe p 
Ht 
fi 
Bl 
; E 
ile Bigee 
al a 
Ht esake 
# 
| | ven | 22082000 | | Stocktemperature measurement "818670 7 ——————— + Hommes | Brabender’ Wiring Diagramm | certnange, jawt 14 — —— ] 815670E000-04 fasacer 20°" Zustand | Andenng. ee ee ir ~ [ewe 
1 I 2 3 | 4 T 5 | ] 6 | 8rr ae = aNADI p-can 12 
it express authority is strictly 
© BRABENDER GmbH&CO.KG Duisburg to third parties wil forbidden. stand 
behalten 
wir 
uns 
alle 
Rechte 
vor. 
VervielRalligung, Bekannigabe 
an 
Dritte 
oder 
Verwertung 
seines 
Inkalles sind 
ohne 
unsere 
ausdriickiche 
Zustrnrmung 
verboten. © 
BRABENDER 
GmbH&CO.KG 
Duisburg F , 4 [ss I 8 u 3 
CAN-IN 
12 -X22 241907.001 218244 : _ i“ es wal ve oil ve HRS ON ay 
z GND. = CAN-GNO oat ow oN Pic) HOM _CANGND A 143 94 
= 5 5} aie CANH vo] i ral 1088 __ Ata 43.34 
30 | 2 fae Ley CAN wa ort Lt} ac) Foe 13.81 
i 
iHK—c> - ‘ 
love [recast aw amt 
-X23 221582 
a 8 ‘ ‘ TORQUE-AMPLIFIERE | | 712 MP55-X1-CANBUS 
i 241682 Modul-ID 40 
fof fntntstintns 500KB 
tt —— 
2 2 Es 2 —————— oo car [ren eho 
TORQUE-AMPLIFIERE 
| | oid MPSS {5poLD-SUB TORQUE-AMPLIFIERE sista Fe LOADCELL -T2 | MPS5-x3-DIGINANAOUT 
9pol.D-SUB } 241692 
200 Invertermodul CANopen Tyla lis Tea 
X24 4 | | | = 210616 |, e elev 35 e B55 
it > 
a4o€ aya 4 h | 
a HS SSL: 241362" ' 
Load cell: 
Sele 'CAN-Bus and Torque measurement jor es5670 —— 
+ ie | = ef = ‘Wiring Diagramm Traian lee 
Zuvend —__Aorng Datum Nowa [Bet I = 815670E000-04 a ana 20 
1 I 5] | 8 2 i 3 5 | I 8 1 8 
14,08 SA T62N 
| 1,08 C= SAND TSO 
X27 
218191 
Ne - 
TAY CANDY (O36 YE call oe ot ve tj CAM TV 
288 CAN-OUT 
12.Be s—_T2 _CN-GNO 3) o wn | aH. ey 
pe _TRCANHCANH ®N BN BN | | CANAL Skee xe 
112.86 Ee RCNA an | wa | cin, <1 221332 
> R120 
Simms <I ) \ —! 
Lo 1 
silat ae Ae 22tse2 ld 
4 + = pele [aie re i) 
=== FT? hp <a re | 
“= iced a = -——_—_——— OFF on 
te eg at te -B2 rs 241689 ‘Bavei$0Q) ModulID 37 
eee loan" h 
Fee BF | 1 6s a 
238 2 A+ - Gt mt @ me PH Gt 
s2 a re ee je-_|ot_. 5 oo O90 OF o o9 @€0 O88 GO 
S83 0 ; t 
goa 8 | a See 9 NC NC ONC OCAMH CANL NC CAN 
zee 2 -K2)—270050405-88375 Wi RO Wi RD WH RO WH oe 
ses, 3 261895 _Temp-Conttoller R2200 CAN-Bus 
£33 5 an a ModutiD 33 
223 ont 
aie @ i a ie ants wid wis wis 
28o3e Psi 1 X17 X18 | 4 -X194 4 18301, 2801 “218304 218301 pa 
h U LU im i 248285 218285 218285 218285 
Hi 24838 
33a i 
H eo 
Hl i 
HE | e838 
i Datur } ‘Peugrur 
{ —— fe 208 'CAN-Bus and Torque measurement Pe sisa70 
{tea fe 4 | nal “Wiring Diagramm - ore ven Ta Zustand Ardonng Daf nome | Nome Te [eet l 815670E000-04 Lanzahl 20 
1 2 | 3 5 | | 6 | 7 ] 8 a= = =‘We 
reserve 
all 
rights 
in this 
docurnent 
and 
in the 
informa fion 
contained 
therein, 
Reproduction, 
use 
or disclosure to third 
parties 
without 
express 
authority 
is strictly forbidden, |_@ 
BRABENDER 
GmbH&CO.KG 
Duisburg ] Far 
dieses 
Dokument 
und 
den 
darin 
dargesteltten 
Gegen- stand 
behalten 
wir 
uns 
alle 
Rechte 
vor. 
Vervelfatigung, E ES : | @ BRABENDER 
GmbH&CO.KG 
Duisburg mcae TY Mee 
1,68 Be ATE 
BARE My 
RAS GND 
OAR FE 
f1aptc BSA Tt 
WERE | 
E=) 
XG1 222507.001 ii 
USB | Kode ‘Datum | Name -K11 242034 2 | 3 4 I 5 7 8 
Ve 
Oe 
ANd ym oXTA. 1M xst6r0 2 Ng At A 
X74 sey 190 4200 GND ag ay 
RTA ta Pho 5A 
— 
eit? ro mK 
X78 tu aw oa an Seu 
| I 
Sern 
1 = , , i F F i ° 
aha 1 J oil . WH YE GN 
N23 CNX ij | 
Up? x zs 8 4 
UP Squared Gateway, Pentium N4200 ret 5 | 
USB 3.0 LANY ue? -P3.Xt ’ “a Ay 
USE1 —USB2 (| ry HDMI ay use3usB4 : I ; prod 
as = - t co) | crmwons = 2 
———— tious Sond Panel ' iy 1 ! ' SS Multitouch-Control-Panel ao ie 
sos E Ue he OP 
x13" X102 == Use 
USBE | Du : X44 
ij we +t a 
Ly ' F 
Pa zt | roost D 
cn 
sven ot | 
BR ons 28 aS 
€ 
my | onl 5 
LANOUT LANIN HDMI USB USB | 
F 
a Brabender’ PC-Device Bm 5870 Ty —| 
SS EEE . Wiring Diagramm — Zeichnungs Nr, Ba 14 
Nom Ung. Fat Teed 815670E000-04 = gona 20 
2 | 3 4 5 ? 8 20 
wo. 
“" 815670 —__} 
mane 84 5670E000-04 fama 20 | 1 2 l I 
NAb Ee 4 28 apo 
N4AB THR GND — X14, j8 
agg eet - 
278 6a 30 
wi x8 | | 
, 32 
pier 
+ X19.1 Le 
zag 
14 | tan Sade weariz | ORER™ | zy 
Pal Stn 
a 3) X19 
if 438 r — 
iy gee Bl 
aig i fbe 6 Pe 358 6 eee & 
ees i 4 gai 5 242008 | | 
seed a bigdel 28580) 
za 8 
oXT10 243 4 5 is 
be . 222189" 
i 
L U H : 288 i 
Hi ity BuuTE 
I m | 22.08: ] 15C-Deui 
SS == = "Brabender| __ S22on Zustand Antenng Datum tis ia Une _liet [ema = I 
i 2 3 | 4 5 || Bla 1 
8 — = I =" 3 4 a ee _[ —_ id | a 
Components i ‘ a + ' “ — — j 
POS. | assembly | location vam component description | supplier | 
: designations | pp page / path 
1 | _| -B1 241362 | ‘Load cell Z6 200KG _ | Hottinger Baldwin | 12.66 
2 -B2 241699 _Stock temperatur Modul CAN 4.ti; 4 channel Micro Control — 
3 | F141 222023) automatic circuit breaker 3 pol 20A Type S203P-K 20 ABB Stotz _ 7B2 
B | 4 — -F2 218935 —_—|_ automatic circuit breaker 1 pol 10A Type S281-K10 ABB Stotz | /4.B2 
| 5 __| | -F3 221389 Fuse 6,3x32 20A ultra fast _ Schurter | /9.B2 
L6 -F4 221389 Fuse 6,3x32 20A ultra fast _ Schurter | 19.B3 | 
L7 | -F5 221389 Fuse 6,3x32 20A ultra fast __| Schurter | 9.83 
[8 -F6 | 221389 | Fuse 6,3x32 20A ultra fast Schurter __/9.B5 
= 9 | =| “~T 221389 Fuse 6,3x32 20A ultra fast | Schurter | /9.B6 | 
; 10 -F8 | 221389 __| Fuse 6,3x32 20A ultra fast | Schurter _| /9.B7 
e iF (i [ \ -F9 221330 __| Fuse 6,3x32 0,3A fast acting _ |Schurter /10.B3 
88 EF || 12. _ | -F10 221330 Fuse 6,3x32 0,3A fast acting Schurter | /10.B3 
8 : || 13 L-Fi1 | 221623 Over- and undervoltage relay IL 9077.12/800 Dold | 13.D3 
ha FE | 14 -F12 241920 | SMC-Z20 Safety controller w. sensor interface LT-i Motion GmbH | /4.E5 
mee 3 | 15 -K1 | 266243 servo-controller Stéber SDS5075/L 7,5KVA/10A/3x400V Stober 
g 5 Hi | 16 -K2 241895 _Elotech R2200 8 Zonen Temperatur controller 6x H/C; 2X H; 24 Elotech 44.D7 | 
228 2) 17 | -K3 | 222095 | Solid state Relay SUL967460-K 230-600V/25A Celduc 10.D6__ 
: Hf id fig | -K4 | 222095 | Solid state Relay SUL967460-K 230-600V/25A Celduc 0.07 
agees| | 19 | -K5 222095 Solid state Relay SUL967460-K 230-600V/25A ___| Celduc |__/10.D7 
| 20 | -K6 222095 Solid state Relay SUL967460-K 230-600V/25A _Celduc |_ 140.07 
21 — si) -K7 222095 | Solid state Relay SUL967460-K 230-600V/25A _ Celduc _ _ /10,D8 
ke 22 -K8 222095 Solid state Relay SUL967460-K 230-600V/25A Celduc | 10.D8 
4 : | | 23 | | -K9 | 222152 __| Safety-Relaymodul RM-24V-20/2S APPOLDT GmbH 18.07 
if | |_24 {| -K10 | 873307.003 = : _ 
5 i j ) {25 -K11 | 242034 | UP Squared Gateway.Pentium N4200 AAEON Technology /14,B2 
| ji il g, | 26 I -K12 242009 _Kemo Amplifier MO31N _ Kemo Elektronik GmbH /15.E3 
F i i | ee | __ | -Mi | 235306 __| Stéber-Servo 4,24KW i=17,517 Stober __17.E4 | 
i gf 28 -M2 222693 | Fan 24VDC,60 x 60 x 15mm RS Pro | /4.E2 
| : i 29 | -M3 222693 Fan 24VDC,60 x 60 x 15mm _RS Pro | /4E3 | 
j i 30 -M4 ___| 222693 __| Fan 24VDC,60 x 60 x 15mm RS Pro | /4.E4_ | 
H 3e| 31 | -P1 | 218580 __| piezoelectric hooter SCI 535 BS 24Vde = ___| Sonitron = 1.3 | 
. \| 32 __| -P2 | 218580 piezoelectric hooter SCI 535 B5 24Vdc ___| Sonitron | 4.E7 | 
——— a | Brabender| —_[Peticbanitetisi co = = - | ponents list Zeicnangs Ni, aut 16 
[ewe | deteng [vom [nn Ne Ua Se Fr a —<—S —— 815670E000-04 yeaa 20 
1 | 2 I 3 I 4 Tl 8 6 l z __ &1 wil _ 2 — 3 1 4 |— Ell 3 7 8 
Components 
A | T = j = | 
POS.| assembly _ location device component description supplier designations P page / path 
| 33 _ | -P3 242033 Multi-touch Control Panel CP3916-0000 |Beckhoff el 
34 |_-P4 242008 Structure-borne driver Visatron BS 76- 8Ohm Visatron GmbH&Co.KG 5.D5 | 
|_35 01 ‘| 221625 Power Switch 32A with undervoltage trip _ Elektra Talfinger | B.C 
B || 36 , | -SO _| 222174 Emergency stop button - IDECG _ | 15.C2 | 
37 | | -S1 _ | 222534 | LED T5,5K24UB;White,24V AC/DCV,7-14mA Schlegel 15.04 
| 36 | | -S4 | 222528 Pushbutton illuminated START Schlegel | .C5 
39 | -S1 _| 221840 | Contactor 25+20 5-250V 4A __ Schlegel | 6.C5 
7 40 -82 221840 | Contactor 28+20 5-250V 4A = Schlegel — 
| 41 | -S2 222529 | Pushbutton illuminated STOP | Schlegel _ 15.C5. 
; 42 | 11 ___ | 221647 __| Puls Power pack 84-276 VAC / 24-28 VDC lout 10A | Puls /4.B2 
is iF | 43 | -T2 241692 ___| Torque amplifier MP55 f. CAN-bus ____ | HBM == | M2.C6 
24 = 44 -T3 221969 current transformer M2000; 50A/SOmA i= 1:1000 Elotech | 19.C5 
HE 3| | 45 -T4 221969 current transformer M2000; 50A/50mA i= 1:1000_ Elotech 19.C6 
ue ‘ 4| | 46 -T5 221969 current transformer M2000; 50A/50mA i= 1:1000 Elotech | 19.D7 
eet 8) | 47 | ss -T6 | 221530 | puls power pack 84-264 VAC / 24-28 VDC /2,1A/ 50W Puls | 4B4 | 
ry a) | 48 | -17 _ 221880 | puls power pack 84-264 VAC / 5-5,5 VDC / 54/ 25W Puls 4.86 
a2: 5 | 49 = -T9 242036 | Industry USB-2.0 Hub fold _ Exsys | 14.B5 
i a a Fe 50 | | -T10 | 242044 Active Adapter Displayport- DVI-D; ST DP2DVIS | Startech 4.D3_ | 
He a 5 | -T11 222712 | adjustable DC voltage converters 3 - 15V 7 __|Kemo 15.B4 
= 52 _ | -T12 241907.001 USB-to-CAN V2 compact HMS Ind.Net.GmbH | 
53 | | -TF1 242035 2.1 Sound, Manhattan Hi-Speed USB 3-D Audio _ Manhattan-Products /15.B3 
jheae || 54 | v1 | 221253 Powerline filter FN356-36/33, 3x400V+N+PE 36A ____| Schaffner | 13.61 
® i ee | _-W17 | 221842 | Cable for Stéber-Servomotor ED704 Stéber | 7.02 
if | 56 4 = -W18 | 618552 | Apapterkabel Resolver MDS-SMC1 221 _ Stoeber 17.04 
3 i 57 LL -w9 618553.001 Stéber cable Motordekoder Endat_ __ | St6ber | 
i ih 58 || -weo 618004 | Low power cable, plug 5.5/2.1 mm, 2m | Conrad — | 
a8 59 | | -w29 | 618595 Connectioncable USB A/B 1,0 m _ InLine 
LEH) |_60 | -w30 _ [618595 Connectioncable USB A/B 1,0 m |InLine 
za318)| 61 ia | -Ww36 | 618005.001 ‘Connection Wire DVI 1,5 mf. Multitouch CP39xx-0000 _ EVG-Martens | 
Hy B 62 __| -w37 618006.001 | Connection Wire USB-E 1,5m f. Multitouch CP39xx-0000 EVG-Martens __ — 
zeake | 63 | | W838 | 222682 © Connectioncable Klinkenstecker-3,5-Stereo | VOLTCRAFT ____} 15.03 | 
1 | | 64 aif -WG1 | 618605 _ Connection cable USB 3.0 A/A 1m _ | Delock | 
1 or eee Betriebsmittelliste mn? 815670 | 
a Components list IeEW. << acnn Teeny 
ae ; — 815670E000-04 [ua z0 
7 a a es 2 - —, Tq il 6 || | 8 7 8 mm mn T 
Fer 
dieses 
Dokument 
und 
den 
darin 
dargesteliten 
Gegen- Components - a = ; a a ; — |x 
| POS.| assembly | location device component description supplier designations ‘page / path 
| 65 -WG2 | 618577.001 Cable HDMI(A) male /HDMI(A) male 90° angles 0,5m ____| Bechtle direct GmbH 
| 66 | | x1 217484 ___| CEE-Connector socket 32A 380-415V 9h, 3P+N+PE _ | __/3.F 4 
| 67 _| x1 _| 217482 __ CEE-Connector Pin 32A 380-415V 9h, 3P+N+PE Diverse _ | B.FT 
68 __| -X2 221363 | cable connector femal M12 4pol |Woodhead/Nies 15.D6 | |p 
| 69 | -X3 221363 cable connectorfemalM124pol |Woodhead/Nies __ __ .C7 
70 -X4 217248 Female receptacle 4 polig BU Tuchel-Amphenol /9,E2 
71 -X5 217248 Female receptacle 4 polig BU | Tuchel-Amphenol __/9.E3 
72 | | -Xx6 | 217250 _Female receptacle 7pol BU = | Tuchel-Amphenol | 9.E3 | Fy] 
L738 | -X7 217248 __| Female receptacle 4 polig BU Tuchel-Amphenol 19.E5 
| 74 ; | -X8 | 217248 ___| Female receptacle 4 polig BU Tuchel-Amphenol /9.E6 
iF | 75 | -X9 |217248 Female receptacle 4 polig BU - Tuchel-Amphenol | 19.E7 és 
24 2 76 = | -X10 218301 Thermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF | Merz /11.C4 ] 
E 3 is al | UE -X10 218285 thermo short-circuit termination Spoerle | M1.C4 | 
igs 3] | 78 | -X11 218301 Thermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF Merz ACS 
See 5 79 | -x11 218285 thermo short-circuit termination Spoerle 141.05 im 
Fy : 5 80 120 218301 | Thermocouple Connector type FSTGC-J-FF | Merz | ACS | 
Hs H 5 | 81 i -X12 __ | 218285 thermo short-circuit termination _ = Spoerle | 111.05 _ 
i a a | 82 ll -X13 | 218301 Thermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF _ Merz /11.C6 A 
epee | 83 -X13 | 218285 _ | thermo short-circuit termination __|Spoerle 11.06 
r——} | 84 ‘| -X14 218301 Thermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF _| Merz | /11.07 
85 | | X14 218285 thermo short-circuit termination _ | Spoerle | 111.07 
a; 86 | | __| -X15 218301 ____| Thermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF Merz 11.07 
i i 87 | | -X15 218285 thermo short-circuit termination (Spoerle 111.07 
i | | 88 | | -X16 ___| 218301 Thermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF | Merz N3.D5 | 
3 U | 89 -X16 218285 © thermo short-circuit termination _|Spoerle L M13.D5 
1 @|| 90 | X17 | 218301 Thermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF | Merz 3.06 F 
ue | 91 | -X17 |. 218285 thermo short-circuit termination | Spoerle |_13.D6 
4 5 | 92 | -X18 | 218301 Thermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF | Merz 13.06 | 
j Hy 93 | | -X18 218285 thermo short-circuit termination | Spoerle | 13.D6 | 
i | 94 1 | -X19 | 218304 _ __ | Thermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF Merz —| 3.07 | 
as | 95 -X19 218285 | thermo short-circuit termination _Spoerle /13.D7 
| 96 r | -X20 | 222038 push pull connector female 8 pol D 104 A066 Fischer Connectors | /8.E6 
== | Brabender| Esher” = Se — = a — —?"""" §15670E000-04 axa 
1 I 2 I 3 I 4 7 5] I 6 7 | a1 | 2 ] 3 4 il 5] i 6 7 8 ==— | Components - | _ ——<— 4 
POS.| assembly _ location ae component description supplier 
" designations P p page / path 
| 97 X21 | 221376 12pol.push pull connector female | Fischer ___ 6.03 
| 98 ( | -X22 218244 __| D-SUB female connector 9pol Ernie /12.B3 
| 99 = | -X23 | 221592 D-SUB female connector 9pol Subcon M2 _ Ernie N2.C4 | 
| 100 | X24 | 218616 | D-SUB male connector 15pol _ Ernie | 2.D6 
| 101 | = “X25 218191 | D-SUB mate connector 9pol ___| Ernie , /13.B5 
| 102 | -X26 221592 D-SUB female connector 9pol Subcon M2 _ Ernie 113.87 
| 103 | ____| -K27 218191 D-SUB male connector 9pol = \Emie /13,B8 
104 -X27 221332 O- Sub connector with terminal resitor 120 Ohm for CAN-bus KKC Handelsge. | __3.B8 
105 = = -X28 217057 Terminal connector 12 pol. _Klering GmbH _ 14.03 
106 — | -X29 222509.001 flange socket 2xUSB 2.0-A type RRJ_USB Schlegel GmbH&Co.KG 
i i 107 | -X38 222511 flange socket RJ45 typ RRJ_RJ45 Schlegel GmbH&Co.KG | 
3 af (108 | -X39 | 222511 flange socket RJ45 typ RRJ_RJ45 _| Schlegel GmbH&Co.KG | _ 
ait g _109 -X40 | 222513 flange socket PS2 typ RRJ_HDMI_STB Schlegel GmbH&Co.KG 
i é é 110 | -X44 218280 _CPC-square Flange receptacle AMP 182641-1 AMP/Tyco /10.E2 
ge 6] | 111 | | -xD1 242042 | ©9900-K630/CU8801, USB2.0-Extender-Tx Beckhoff 
ai 3 112 | -XG1 222507.001 Flange socket USB 2.0-ARRJ_USB_AA | Schlegel M4.F1 
eS & 113 | | -XT1 222763 Connection block MetaStation 4E XT1 Phoenix Contact 
es ig 114 _ -XT2 222760 Connection block MetaStation 4E XT2 - | Phoenix Contact 
He Ab | 115 [ it -XT3 222690 Connection block XT3 Drive Unit — TE Connectivity 
l / {116 | -XT4 | 222761 | Connection block MetaStation 4E XT4 _ Phoenix Contact | — 
— | 117 | -XT5 222764 | Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/6 for Terminal _| Phoenix Contact. 16.D3 
is | [118 | -XT5 222736 Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/4 for Terminal Phoenix Contact 15.A5 | 
i 119 | I -XT5 222764 | Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/6 for Terminal _ Phoenix Contact 5.B2 | 
Ui 120 | -XT5 222736 Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/4 for Terminal | Phoenix Contact 15.B7 | 
4 i 121 | -XT5 222734 Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/2 for Terminal | Phoenix Contact 15.05 
al g| | 122 | | -XT5 222694 | Connection block XT5 Drive Unit _ Phoenix Contact _| 
Hi | 123 -XT6 | 222737 | Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/5 for Terminal Phoenix Contact ES | 
i 6| | 124 | -XT6 222736 Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/4 for Terminal Phoenix Contact | 4.B6 
H i i 125 | -xT6 | 222695 | Connection block XT6 Drive Unit Phoenix Contact | 
i u 126 -XT7 | 222715 | Terminal connector PTV 2,5-Quattro | Phoenix Contact /5.B1 | 
BIE) [407 | -XT8 222773 Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/1 GNYE Phoenix Contact | 4.B8 | 
128 | | -XT8 | 222734 Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/2 for Terminal _ | Phoenix Contact M5.B4 | 
| | | Datum | 22.08.2020 ] n ii A | Beugruppe | 
=—=———— Brabender] Components it ee =a Feaearg Daim | Nore | Ao | f leet Tea T 815670E000-04 fran 20 
1 [ 2 I 5 T 3 I | 6 7 ] 8Components ‘We 
reserve 
all rights 
in this 
document 
and 
in the 
informa ‘ion 
contained 
therein. 
Reproduction, 
use 
of disclosure to 
third 
parties 
without 
express 
authority 
is strictly forbidden. @ BRABENDER 
GmbH&CO.KG 
Duisburg - —— - 
, device POS. | assembly | location | com ipti y | loc designations ponent description supplier page / path 
129 -XT8 222736 _ Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/4 for Terminal | Phoenix Contact 14.87 _ 
130 -XT8 222762 Connection block MetaStation 4E XT8 Phoenix Contact 
131 -XT9 222189 Terminal connector 10pol Weidmiller N5.B4 | 
132 -XT10 222189 Terminal connector 10pol | Weidmuller __116.D3 
133 _XT4.1 221576 [Terminal connector ABB Entrelec-Schiele /10.B3 
<i: 
tee at 
Be 
me" 815670 Betriebsmittelliste 
Brabender’ Components list 
Ers.t Tes.2. 
1 |?8ere 8 4 5 70E000-04 Bla 20 
BiAnzahl_ 20 
8 "me §t he & eS:LBrabender® GmbH & Co. KG 
Kulturstr. 49-54 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
@ Phone +49-203-7788-0 
= E-mail: brabender@brabender.com 
www.brabender.com Brabender’ 
... where quality is measured. 
C.W. Brabender® Instruments, Inc. 
§0 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
@ Phone +201-343-8425 
Fax +201-343-0608 
6 E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
www.cwbrabender.com 000 «Bpa6exqep» 
yn. Aroguuckaa, A. 25 
420032 KasaHb 
Pocens 
@ Ten. +7843 23346 66 
6 E-Mail: ooo.brabender@brabender.ru 
www.brabender.com