Brabender’ 
... where quality is measured. 
a > he : ; Ke ry a - ; zt 
Instruction Manual’ bd - 
2 : hh bis o et 4 \ 3 . - 9. Be “rhs ae e.} AG 
- i Oe  * . wa Yr 24 ers ' = H "> 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 
ID no. 7900060Copyright 
All content, pictures, texts and graphics are protected by copyright. All kind of 
translation, forwarding to third persons, reproduction and distribution - even of 
extracts - is prohibited without our prior express written consent. 
Brabender® and other brands not specially marked are registered trademarks of 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG. 
© Copyright by 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG 
KulturstraRe 49-51 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
Proprietary rights, brands and trademarks of third parties 
Any products registered as trademarks are not particularly marked in the present 
documentation. Existing property rights (patents, trademarks, registered or industrial 
designs) must be observed by all means. 
Original Instruction Manual 
7900060_SW-MixMB_BAdg-00-e 
Edition 0419Contents 
1 General Information... cece eee senenenreneseereesitesciecseesneeeeenseceaseesianents 5 
1.1. Use of the instruction manual... 
1.2 Disclaimer of liability.. 
1.3. Software 
2 COMA oie cee ceeeneteeseneesecatseensetsanetieeeeseceeseuesieessenenesseteuseesgessteteteenes 7 
3 Stylistic features oo. eae cee eee cneteenetterse rece seeestieescieceetseceeeneesseaeeeneeeeaes 9 
3.1 General stylistic features.. 
3.2 Mandatory signs..... 
3.3 Design of safety messages. 
4 MetaBridge software 0... cseeccneeeereseeeteeereseresneceesstesnsetessiteanicaes 11 
4.1 Connection of the MetaBridge controller... re nseeneeneeeee 11 
4.2 — Starting/running down the internal PC . 
4.2.1 Starting the internal PC 
4.2.2 Running down the internal PC oo... ccc eeeeeeeeeseneeeeeeeeene 14 
4.3 Start screen of the Brabender MetaBridge ............0.0c cece 15 
4.4 Device-specific tiles... eect ceeeceereeeeaeenereneeeeteeeeneraseesasieeeerreteers 
4.4.1 Tile "MetaBridge" ... 
44.2 Tile "New" 
44.2.4 Parameter WINdOW...0..... cece cee cceeeetet ce reeeatereeeeeteeeeas 17 
4.4.2.2 Measuring WINdOW...0...... cies eeetceeeesee erste ceesttesseeeeneeats 21 
4.4.2.3 Evaluation.... 
44.3 Tile "Load" 
4.4.3.1 Editing a loaded test.. 
444 Tile "Correlation’ ........ ccc ceecece cee teers reese eeaeeaeeseeraseeeeerneseeeate 34 
44.4.1 License activation 00.00... eer re ere reeeiente 34 
444.2 Create new correlation .... 
4443 Load correlation... 
445 Tile "Reference curve” .. 
446 Tile "M@thods! o.oo... eee ceececee cece ceceeeeeeeseaeeeteceeeeeeineeaeaesenteenecenenenenteeas 42 
446.1 Create a new Method oo... cece ecneeeenenecnetennerereeeenenees 43 
4.46.2 Rename a method. 
446.3 Delete a method .... 
446.4 Create, rename, delete speed profiles .... . 
44.7 Tile “Alar ooo. e cece eeececeeeece cee ceeceecceceaeeseeeeseeeeseseeetetiseteeeeeeets 
4.5 General tiles 0... cece ece ere eee testes se teeeeneeseecneee cee sneeneeneenssneeeseesned 
45.1 Buttons in the action bar of the general tiles .. 
4.5.2 Tile "Hardware" 
45.3 Tile "Time/date”... 
454 Tile "MuitiDevice" 
45.44 Installation of a new device oo... cece eeeeee ete teeeriee 52 
45.4.2 Tile "FAQ" 
4.5.4.3 Tile "Device Management” .. 
Software MetaBnidge® MixMB for MixerContents 
8 4.5.4.4 Tile "FECAD ACK" oe. ccc eeee ee cee eee ee eseeree rennet naeaenenesnerneees 56 
4.5.4.5 Tile "Network devices? oo... eee eee ee ee eereereneceecneenes 56 
4.5.5 Tile "Manual". 
4.5.6 Tile "Options" .... 
4.5.6.1 General settings... 
456.2 Network setting, printer Setup... ee ccc e cre eeeeeneeees 61 
4.5.6.3 Diagram settings 
4.56.4 Axis settings 
4.5.6.5 Series settings .. 
4.5.6.6 Correlation Settings ........... cece ere eee reece snseneneraies 69 
4.5.6.7 Measuring view 
4.5.6.8 Service settings 
45.6.9 Hardware settings 
4.5.7 Tile "User" 
4.5.8 Tile "Our Products’ 
45.9 Tile "About us" 
Configuration of the MetaBridge software 
5.1 Presettings in the MetaBridge software at initial start-up.. we 
Running a test 2.2... ee cececeee tenses recesses sseesasasssesenessaseeseessasenseraseecscesiecatees 83 
6.1 Safety notes, general NOLES 0... ccc cree ce tees ce ce rseeneteteeteeteeeecaes 83 
6.2. System preparation prior to each test... 
6.3 Test procedure. 
6.4 Testend 
6.4.1 Test end upon expiry of the test £16... eects rete ree creer eee 88 
6.4.2 Early test end (test abDOrtion)......... eee cece cece eeneeneetanees 89 
71 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerRead the manual 
thoroughly! 
Strictly observe 
instructions and 
safety instructions! 
Keep and hand over 
with the instrument! 
Keep instruction 
manual accessible at 
any time! General 
1 General Information 
1.1. Use of the instruction manual 
Brabender instruments/software are developed/designed and built according to the 
state-of-the-art and comply with the demand for simple and safe handling. In order 
to become familiar with the applications and to use the Brabender 
instrument/software in an optimum way, it is imperative to read this instruction 
manual very carefully before putting the Brabender instrument into operation. 
The instructions, safety instructions and precautions given in the present instruction 
manual have to be observed strictly. 
This instruction manual manual is delivered with the Brabender instrument/software 
and is intended for operation in practice. It is fo make the operating personnel familiar 
with the Brabender instrument/software and to inform them about details concerning 
transport, storage, mounting, start-up, operation, maintenance, trouble-shooting, 
and disposal. 
This instruction manual is, therefore, to be considered part of the Brabender 
instrument/software and must be kept and handed over with the instrument/software. 
The operating personnel as well as the personnel in charge of maintenance and 
repair must always have free access to this instruction manual. 
1.2 Disclaimer of liability 
Within the scope of legal regulations, Brabender GmbH & Co. KG refuses any liability 
- for whatever legal argument - for direct or indirect damage caused in connection 
with the delivery or use of the Brabender instrument/software. This is in particular 
true for - but not limited to - improper use and/or improper operation and handling of 
the Brabender instrument/software. 
In this context, Brabender explicitly excludes any warranty for wear parts, in 
particular for those with product contact. 
Under no circumstances, Brabender GmbH & Co. KG can be made liable for any 
damage or injuries caused by non-observance of the safety regulations included in 
the data sheets of the producer of substances to be tested or processed with the 
Brabender instrument. This is also valid if a recommendation was made concerning 
the application of certain substances and/or if the provision of test material is part of 
the scope of delivery and service. 
The Brabender instrument is subject to modifications of color and design as well as 
to technical modification without prior notice. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 5General Information 
1.3 Software 
The Brabender software is developed with care and is tested internally - within the 
frame of general safety standards also for computer virus. This does, however, not 
involve any warranty whatsoever that the data carriers provided by Brabender and/or 
data transmitted electronically by Brabender are virus free. 
It is within the exclusive responsibility of the user to test the Brabender software by 
means of state-of-the-art virus searching programs and to make sure that only 
Brabender software is applied which has been duly tested for computer virus by the 
user and has been found virus free. 
Any claims arising from liability for defects concerning the functionality, 
faultlessness, and usability of Brabender software and/or concerning Brabender 
software being virus free are therefore excluded. 
Our liability for any other damage arisen by the use of the Brabender software is 
limited to intent or gross negligence. Any further liability - for whatever legal 
argument, in particular for direct or indirect consequential damage - is excluded. 
The software is subject to modification serving functional improvement and technical 
progress without prior notice. 
Due to continuous progress and development of the software, the screenshots, if 
included in the present instruction manual, may slightly differ from the software 
version delivered. 
6 Software MetaBridge® MixME for MixerContact 
2 Contact 
Data to be stated in case of inquiries 
If there are any inquiries to Brabender - e.g. relating to handling of the Brabender 
instrument/software, ordering of spare parts, accessories, additional equipment or to 
sending back Brabender instruments or parts of the instrument/spare parts for 
maintenance or repair - all data given on the name plate must be stated. 
For questions concerning the Brabender software, besides the ID no. of the software 
the version no. must be stated as well. 
Contact 
For any questions, further information, or in case of problems with the Brabender 
instrument/software, please do not hesitate to contact the Brabender Service 
department. 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG 
Kulturstrafe 49 - 51 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
@ Phone +49-203-7788-131 
& E-mail: service@brabender.com 
North American Regions 
C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
@ Phone 201-343-8425 
6 E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 7Contact 
& Software ‘MeteBridge® MixMB for Mixerfeatures. 
3. Stylistic features 
3.1. General stylistic features 
The following stylistic features are used in the instruction manual: 
1. marks operating instructions in their serial order 
> [indented] marks individual steps of a preceding general instruction 
> [indented] marks the consequences of a preceding action 
> {in safety messages] marks operating instructions 
e marks lists or (in instructions) alternatives 
- [indented] marks subordinated lists 
3.2. Mandatory signs 
The following mandatory signs are used in the instruction manual: 
@ General mandatory sign, additional information 
@ Read the instructions before, cross referenceStylistic features 
3.3 Design of safety messages 
The safety messages given in the instruction manual are marked by a hazard 
warning sign and a signal word. 
The signal word and the associated signal color indicate the relative severity of the 
hazard: 
& DANGER 
Describes an imminently hazardous situation which will result in death or 
serious injury if not avoided. 
Describes a potentially hazardous situation which is likely to result in death or 
serious injury if not avoided. 
40 Describes a potentially hazardous situation which may result in minor or 
moderate injury if not avoided. 
Describes a situation which may result in property damage if not avoided. _...MetaBridge software 
4 MetaBridge software 
The Brabender MetaBridge has been factory installed on the internal PC of the 
Brabender instrument or of the MetaBridge controller. The software is web-based, 
that means several authorized users can log in at the same time and monitor the 
teadings live on their PC, tablet or smartphone from anywhere around the world via 
network. The results can be evaluated, printed, and exported using the software. 
4.1 Connection of the MetaBridge controller 
1. Connect a USB-to-CAN adapter to one of the four USB ports on the left side 
of the MetaBridge controller and, on the other side, to the CAN-OUT port of 
the Brabender instrument. 
Fig. 1: USB-to-CAN adapter Fig. 2: MetaBridge controller, 
connections on the left 
side 
1 CAN cable 3 USB (4 x) 
2 USB-to-CAN adapter 4 HDMI 
5 LAN 
6 PC ON/OFF 
2. Plug the power cord into the power cord connection on the right side of the 
MetaBridge controller and connect it to the power supply. 
Fig. 3: MetaBridge controler, power supply connection 
1 Power supply connectionsoftware 
~~ 
om 
Button "Network 
settings” 
12 Connect the MetaBridge controller as follows with the display unit. 
For direct access to the MetaBridge software {no LAN access) 
> 
> 
> Connect a monitor or touch monitor via an HDMI cable to the HDMI 
connection of the MetaBridge controller. 
In case of a touch monitor, connect the monitor via a USB cable to one 
of the four USB ports of the MetaBridge controller. 
lf anormal monitor is used, connect an additional mouse and keyboard 
via USB cables to a USB port of the MetaBridge controller. 
Switch the MetaBridge controller on by pressing the key "PC ON/OFF". 
For external access to the MetaBridge software via LAN 
@ If DHCP has been activated, an IP address is allocated automatically 
when the MetaBridge controller is connected to the network. 
Steps to be carried out locally: 
> 
> Connect the MetaBridge controller via a LAN cable to a LAN wall 
socket. 
Press the key "PC ON/OFF" on the MetaBridge controller in order to switch 
the MetaBridge controller on. 
To show the IP address of the MetaBridge controller, connect a touch 
monitor (or a standard monitor and an additional USB mouse) directly 
to the MetaBridge controller via HDMI and USB. 
Tap the tile "Options" on the start screen of the MetaBridge and then the 
button "Network settings" in the action bar and note IP address of the 
MetaBridge controller. 
External access: 
> Contact a local lab assistant in order to find out the IP address of the 
MetaBridge controller. Enter this IP address in the address line of your 
internet browser. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerMetaBridge software 
4.2 Starting/running down the internal PC 
4.2.1 Starting the internal PC 
1. In case of a direct connection via an HDMI cable, switch the MetaBridge 
controller on by pressing the key "PC ON/OFF". 
@ For external access via LAN, the MetaBridge controller must have been 
switched on as well. 
For external access, enter the IP address of the MetaBridge controller in the 
address line of your internet browser and confirm with “Enter”. 
> After a few seconds, the log-in window shows up on the display unit 
(see fig. below) where you can log in or create a new user account. 
a) Only in case of external access: A warning message concerning an 
unsafe connection may appear which can, however, be ignored. 
IivietaBriage MetaBridge Brabender, 
Hier 
reed or Ps 
Ss aly 
RE Eo 
Fig. 4: Log-in window Fig. 5: Log-in window (creating a 
(standard log-in) new user account} 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerMetaBridge software 
4.2.2 Running down the internal PC 
it) Users who do not have administrator authorities can only run down the internal 
PC locally, that means if the display unit (PC, tablet, smartphone) is connected 
via a cable to the MetaBridge controller. In remote mode, only administrators 
can run down the internal PC. 
(SM Risk of loss of data by running down the PC improperly! 
Switching off the MetaBridge controller with the main power switch, data may be 
damaged or get lost. 
> 
> Always run down the internal PC properly before switching off the 
MetaBridge controller. 
Do not switch off the MetaBridge controller as long as the internal PC is still 
running! 
Button “Shut down 
the device" For running down the internal PC, tap the tile "User: 
> The following selection window pops up: 
Please select an action... 
[& | Log out a ] 
|e | Change password ] 
[#5 | User administration ] 
Id | Shut down the device 
=) 
Fig. 6: Selection of user functions 
@ Users below the administrator level can see the button "Shut down the 
device" only in local operation. In remote mode, i.e. on external 
terminals, only administrators can see this button. 
Tap the Button "Shut down the device”. 
> A message window "The device is shutting down" pops up. 
™ ta 
The device is shutting down 1ae 
L 
Fig. 7: Message "The device is shutting down" 
> After a few seconds, the internal PC is shut down. 
> Now, the MetaBridge controller can be switched off. 
14 ‘Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixersoftware 
4.3 Start screen of the Brabender MetaBridge 
Upon log-in, the start screen of the Brabender MetaBridge appears (see fig. below). 
@ Generally, the start screen contains some device-specific tiles in the upper 
part (see chapter 4.4 “Device-specific tiles") and some general tiles in the 
lower part (see chapter 4.5 "General tiles"). 
The arrangement of the tiles may vary depending on the terminal (PC, tablet, 
smartphone) and monitor size. 
The menus and functions of the individual tiles will be explained in detail in the 
following. 
@ The following software description is based on touchscreen operation (‘‘tap”). 
The software can, however, be handled just as well using a mouse. 
wit 
(see oil 2 Us 
ae 
Fig. 8: Start screen MixMB 
1 Device-specific tiles 2 General tiles phpvaeray Lapua | 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 15WetaBridge software 
Yom. 2016/02 
Type: 616100 
SN. 1929553 
Fig. 9: 
Tile "MetaBridge" 
Fig. 10: 
Tile "New" 44  Device-specific tiles 
4.4.1 Tile "MetaBridge" 
The "MetaBridge” tile shows the most important instrument data: 
* User-defined device name (factory setting: Brabender, editable under 
“Options” - "Device") 
© Model name (here as an example: Farinograph-TS) 
© BMB: Brabender MetaBridge version no. 
© YoM: Year of mounting of the Brabender device 
@ Type: 1D no. of the Brabender device 
© SN: Serial no. of the Brabender device 
44.2 Tile "New" 
The tile "New' opens the parameter window for entering the parameters for a new 
test and for running and evaluating the new test. 
Software MelaBridge® MixMB for Mixersoftware 
4.4.2.1 Parameter window 
Tapping the tile "New" opens the parameter window for entering the test parameters 
for a new test (see fig. below). 
@ When the parameter window opens, it shows the test parameters of the 
previous measurement so that data that remain unchanged (e.g. user. 
method) do not need to be entered anew. 
@ The fields "User" and "Sample" are mandatory fields. 
Fig. 11: Parameter window 
1 Documentary parameters 3 Action bar 
2 Method-/product-specific 
parameters 
Buttons in the action bar 
Description of button functions 
shows a description of the button functions 
Methods 
opens the "Methods" window 
a Speed profiles 
é opens the "Speed profiles" window 
& Temperature profiles 
opens the "Temperature profiles” window 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 17MetaBridge s software 
K == 
o= 
18 Options 
opens the "Options" window (see chapter 4.5.6 "Tile "Options'™") 
User parameters 
allows to define user-specific parameters in the parameter window. 
1. Tap the button “User parameters”. 
=> The following window opens: 
Please enter a new parameter and confirm with 
_* Keep fast value? 
print parameter? 
x Fig. 12: Entry mask for user- 
J specific parameters 
2. Fill in the mask and confirm with "OK". 
> The following window opens: 
Overview of your user parameters 
pe 
i Additive 
za Fig. 13: Overview of user-specific 
j parameters 
3. Tap “Add" for defining further parameters or tap "Close" for taking over the 
parameter. 
> The parameter is taken over in the parameter window. 
Tag editor 
allows management of tags (key words) which can be searched for later. 
Please enter some new tags and confirm with "OK". 
Tags 
kk Fig. 14: Entry mask for tags 
Back to start screen 
returns to the start screen 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer Ent. MetaBridge software 
elds of the parameter window 
@ In case of touchscreen operation, a virtual keypad appears when tapping an 
entry field. 
e New measurement (documentary parameters): 
Field Entry 
User User name (mandatory!) 
The previous entry will appear automatically until another 
name is entered. 
Order E.g. order no. or ordering company 
Code number Free entry of a code no. (sample or order specification) 
Tags 
e Method parameters: Entry of tags (marks) which facilitate finding the 
measurement or sorting tests by certain criteria 
rt) These parameters are determined by the method selected and can only be 
edited if no method has been set (-/-). 
Field Entry 
Method Selection of a method 
@ For details concerning methods, please refer to 
chapter 4.4.6 "Tile "Methods™ 
Sample Free entry of a sample designation 
Evaluation Selection of the evaluation 
Sample weight Entry of the sample weight (mandatory!) 
Measuring time 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer Entry of the measuring time 
@ The scaling of the time axis depends on the value 
entered here. Upon expiry of this time, the test is 
stops automatically. 
19MetaBridge software 
& 
Button "Speed 
profiles" 
8 Button "Temperature 
profiles” Field Entry 
Speed 
Speed profile 
Mixer temperature 
Temperature profile Entry of setpoint speed (mandatory!) 
@ This value is transmitted to the drive unit when the 
test starts. 
Selection of a speed profile 
@ Tapping the button "Speed profiles" in the action 
bar opens a window for defining a speed profile. 
Entry of setpoint mixer temperature (mandatory!) 
@ This value is transmitted to the temperature 
controller when the test starts. 
Selection of a temperature profile 
@ Tapping the button "Temperature profiles" in the 
action bar opens a window for defining a 
temperature profile. 
Mixer Selection of the mixer used (mandatory!) 
rt ) If a Lab-Station is used as a drive unit, the mixer is 
recognized automatically and cannot be changed. 
Alarm profiles Selection of an alarm profile 
@ Under the tile "Alarm", alarm profiles can be 
defined. 
Additive Free entry of an additive 
Loading chute 
Compare 
reference curve 
Remark with | Free entry of the loading chute used. 
Tapping the box opens a window for loading a reference 
curve. 
@ Entering a key word (tag) in the field "Search..." in 
the right top allows searching for a certain 
reference curve. 
| Free entry of remarks concerning the test 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer_MetaBridge software 
4.4.2.2 Measuring window 
Upon test start, the measuring window appears showing the online diagram and, if 
selected, the numerical values of the running test. 
=a Tapping the button "Diagram settings" allows individual adjustment of the 
measuring window and the displays therein. 
Button "Diagram 
settings” OA 
REDRHOH 
0:0 3200 2700 300 4:00 5:09 Tene inemss} 
i we Torque 1 Speed 1 Stack temperoture 2 ——_———+ ‘i Hi Win. Toque «Fox. Torque «Heating zone a 
g+02:12 40.945. 192.4 ed Stock temperature ime Torque 
Fig. 15: | Measuring window, here: with display of numerical details 
1 Measuring diagram 4 Numerical details 
2 Legend 5 Display of method / Sample 
3 Live-Ticker 
Buttons in the action bar 
Description of button functions 
shows a description of the button functions 
Enabte/disable zoom 
He allows zooming of sections of the curve. 
1. Tap the button "Enable/disable zoom". 
2. Draw the desired range to show it on an enlarged scale. 
3. Tapping the button “Enable/disable zoom" again returns to the normal view. 
# Show/hide numerical view 
When enabled, tapping any point on the curve shows a window with the numerical 
values of the curve in this point. Tapping this button anew disables this function. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for !ViixerNetaBridge software 
= Enter/edit comments 
allows to insert and edit comments and series labels in the diagram. 
it A comment can be placed at any point within the diagram. It is not fixed on 
the curve. In contrast to that, a series label is always fixed with a line on the 
corresponding curve. 
When shifting a series label, the line is moved as well, the line head being 
fixed on the curve and the other end of the line being shifted together with the 
text field. 
1. Tap the point where you want the comment to appear. 
> When you tap directly onto the curve, first a window for selecting 
between series label and comment will appear. Upon selection of the 
option, a text field will appear (see figs. below). 
Label series. |= > 
— | 
Fig. 16: — Selection window Fig. 17: Text field 
2. If applicable (e.g. with a tablet or smartphone), tap the text field for showing 
the virtual keypad, then enter the text, format it (only with a PC, not on touch 
terminals), and tap "Save". 
> The comment appears in the diagram. 
@ As long as the function "Edit comment" is enabled (or when it is enabled again 
later), the comment can be shifted (tap and shift), edited, or deleted (tap). 
Show parameter window 
shows the test parameters in a separate window. 
@ Fields with the "Edit" button can still be edited. 
Button "Edit" 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerBridge software 
[4 Change paramete 
= Opens a selection window for changing individual parameters while the measurement 
is still running. 
@ This button is only visible as long as the test is running. 
j + Add reference curve 
allows loading of a reference curve into the running test. 
1. Tap the button "Add reference curve”. 
=> The list of saved reference curves opens. 
2. Tap the desired reference curve in the list. 
> The selected reference curve is shown as a hatched area in the test 
diagram. 
> The button "Add reference curve" (with a "+" sign) turns into "Remove 
reference curve" (with a "-" sign). ED* 
SO 
HOTS 
store . Steck. tempera fein Togo Hay, Torque Hewtng zane 7 
02:12 40.9 45.0 192.4 Tooue Stork temiperatin 
Fig. 18: Running test with a reference curve 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerMetaBridge software 
Ko Diagram settings 
opens the window "Diagram settings" for making some basic settings concerning the 
test diagram. 
Ted Siem morn 
‘Sater set by tages oO 
a| Td eect owen by acts L 
FE show nas erm ia 
Bop 
us 8 
a 
a 
Fig. 19: Window "Diagram settings" 
Field Entry 
Show legend 
Select series by 
legend Shows/hides the legend in the diagram 
Tapping and holding a series name in the legend shows 
only this series in color in the diagram while all other series 
are shown in grey (see fig. below: series "Min. (smoothed)") 
Select series by axis 
Show sample name 
Show max torque Tapping and holding an axis inscription shows only this 
series in color in the diagram while all other series are 
shown in grey. 
Shows/hides the sample name in the right bottom corner 
of the diagram. 
Shows/hides the maximum torque value in the right 
bottom corner of the diagram. 
The buttons in the action bar enable further settings. eovT view"). 
Back Axis settings 
Enables settings concerning the axes of the diagram. 
Series settings 
Enables settings concerning representation of the individual series. 
Measuring view 
enables selection of a diagram view (see chapter 4.5.6.7 "Measuring 
returns to the previous page. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerMetaBridge s 
Stop measurement 
stops the running test before the measuring time has elapsed. 
Back to start screen 
= © 
returns to the start screen 
MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerMetaBridge software 
=S = 
So 
Button "Diagram 
settings" 
Ho 
26 4.4.2.3 Evaluation 
Upon expiry of the measuring time or after early test stop, the evaluation with the 
complete diagram including the evaluation lines and the tabular evaluation is shown 
(see fig. below). 
& Using the button “Diagram settings’, the evaluation diagram and the 
corresponding displays can be adjusted to your individual needs. 
zo 750) 
vw f* @ | wo fog 2s 
255 0g Cd 
3003 = tit 
ve Efe 
3 pe o ff Bl » @B 
a 
° B oto 5:00 fs) 9 
ts Torque speed = Stock temperture o 88 Hin. Torque ME Max. Torque» Heting zona 1 ae i Evaluation noints 
nN 
iG 
i 
ix 
Integration / Ens 
B 14.7 kien |aseeing Peary St Herve 
Minmum to Maximum 
Maximum to End 
9 km = Loading Peak to Meximum 
148.3 kim Loading Penk to End (W) 1822.2 kNmveg ‘Specific Energy (W/Semple Mass) 
“3.4 kien elation Area above B 
Result 
|Puston Time t (AX) [eats smite 
Gelotion Speed ¥ 64.0 Nejrain 
Fig. 20: Evaluation window (here: with reference curve) 
Buttons in the action bar 
Descri n_of button functions 
shows a description of the button functions 
Enable/disable zoom 
@ See details in the chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window" 
Show/hide numerical details 
@ See details in chapter 4.4.2.2 “Measuring window". 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer=| Enter/edit comments 
@ See details in chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window". 
Show parameter window 
@ See details in chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window". 
E/ Change evaluation 
opens a window for selecting another evaluation method. Upon confirmation with 
"Apply", the test is evaluated anew according to the selected evaluation. 
} + Add reference curve 
opens a selection window for loading a reference curve into a loaded test or for 
creating a new reference curve from the loaded test. 
Please select an action... 
(2 | Add reference curve | 
Shy | Create reference curve | 
Close dialog 
Fig. 21: Selection window reference curve 
[ee 
If reference curves were already saved, a reference curve can be loaded and shown 
directly in the test diagram. Add referenzkurve 
1. Tap the button "Add reference curve". 
> The list of saved reference curves is opened: 
2. Tap the desired reference curve in the list. 
=> The selected reference curve with the tolerance limits is shown as a 
hatched area in the evaluation diagram of the loaded test. 
> The evaluation under the diagram shows the tolerance range of the 
reference curve and the deviations of the measuring curve from the 
reference curve. 
> The button "Add reference curve" (with a "+" sign) turns into "Remove 
reference curve" (with a"-" sign). 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 27MetaBridge software 
bs 
& 
28 Remove reference curve 
Having added a reference curve into a test (see above), the button "Add reference 
curve" (with a "+" sign) turns into "Remove reference curve" (with a"-" sign). Tapping 
this button opens the following selection window: 
Please select an action... | 
F=| Remove reference curve || a = 
Sk?| Create reference curve 
Close dialog 
Fig. 22: Selection window "Remove reference curve" 
fS Remove reference curve 
Deletes the reference curve from the diagram. 
Create reference curve 
From each test loaded, a reference curve can be created, saved and loaded into any 
test using the function "Add reference curve". 
@ For creating a new reference curve, a test must be open. 
4. Tap the button "Create reference curve" in the action bar of the open test. 
> A window with the measuring values and editable tolerances appears. 
Edit the tolerances as desired. 
For saving the edited curve as a reference curve, tap the field “Apply”. 
=> The edited measuring curve is saved as a reference curve. 
> The original measuring curve of the loaded test is shown again. 
4. For loading the reference curve, see "Add reference curve" above. 
@ Reference curves can also be created from a correlation using the button 
"Export". 
Print 
opens a window for selecting a printer. 
@ For printer setup see chapter 4.5.6 "Tile "Options'”. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer_MetaBridge software 
[s Export 
enables export of the test in different ways. 
1. Tap the button "Export’. 
> The following selection window appears: 
Please select an action. 
FE) open POF report 
[EB] export to Excel 
| @ | Send reper: per mail 
| ¥ | Download vest file 
[E) downiead picture 
[22 | Add tests to correlation 
Close dialog 
Fig. 23: Selection window "Export" 
2. Tap the desired button in this window. 
creates a PDF file from the test (this button only appears in case 
of external access) 
exports the test to an Excel sheet 
opens a window for sending the PDF file of the test as an e-mail 
creates a ZIP file from the test 
creates a PNG file from the diagram 
creates a new correlation or extends an existing one (this button 
only appears if the Correlation module has been installed). 
Tapping this button opens another selection window: 
Please select an action... 
ez! Create new correlation 
jes! Load carralation 
Close dialog 
Fig. 24: Selection window "Add to correlation” 
iS creates a new correlation 
eS adds the test to an existing correlation 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer30 software 
Diagram settin f@ @ See details in chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window" 
New measurement Q opens the parameter window in order to start a new test 
@ When loading a saved test, there is the button "Back" on this position instead. 
Back to start screen 
returns to the start screen 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer4.4.3 Tile "Load" 
The tile "Load" contains a list of all tests saved. 
@ In the field "Search..." in the right top, you can search for a certain test or for 
tags (key words) defined before. 
Fig. 25: 
Tile "Load" 
‘show tent per page 10, Bl 
senete ee 
07130071590 anu earn anu eam apuiresian ROBPN a De: PEEPEPPRPEE Dorerett 812 we 
Presous 1 
Fig. 26: Window “Load test" 
q Field “Search...” 
Buttons in the action bar 
(i) Description of button functions 
shows a description of the button functions 
[3 Show preview 
2 shows a preview of the selected test. 
@ First tap the button "Show preview", then select the desired test. Otherwise, 
the test tapped will be opened immediately. 
at tom “ 
snow 16 oe sue 34 BL 
cd rc) 
Fig. 27: Window "Load test" with preview of the test MotaPridge software 
32 il oe} 
® Delete 
deletes the selected test(s) from the list. 
a First tap the button “Delete”, then select the test(s) to be deleted. Otherwise, 
the test tapped first will be loaded. 
Import 
opens the file selection dialog of the respective operating system. 
Taq editor 
allows management or entry of tags (key words) that can be used to filter the test list. 
Back to start screen 
returns to the start screen 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixercnn, MetaBridge software 
4.4.3.1 Editing a loaded test 
Tapping a test in the list of tests or importing a test shows the test diagram with the 
table of evaluation points according to the evaluation selected. 
@ To get a better survey, the following fig. shows the window as a whole, 
although in the usual representation on a PC, tablet or smartphone, you must 
scroll down in order to see the lower part of the window. 
& Concerning the functions of the buttons in the action bar beside the test 
diagram, please refer to chapter 4.4.2.3 “Evaluation”. 
EQ 9 2 ae = Toeque {2m} 
8 
2:00. 2:08 4:00, me [nema 
@ Torque Speed 1 Stock temperature = Min. Forqua = Max. Torque Nesting zone + HOODOO a 
Besieation points 
turgow Stocktemperature Description 
: Landing Peat, 
enimum 
Inflection Pott 
Maxum 
End 
4.7 «Nm Lonaing Fees ve minim 
sm <7 37.4 item [Maximum to End _ = 
rrr | evaing Peak to Maximum 49.3 ktm Leading Peak to End (¥) 
~ 4822,2 Kiimvkg | Specific Eneray (W/Semple Maze) | 
ex 13.4 iim Getation Area ebave 6 
Narsuilt 
SS ———————EET—————— Foxton Tame { (4-5) 04:24 mimes —=—Syj 
+ Galatton Speed v [4.0 Nmfmnin — 
Fig. 28: Evaluation window (here: with reference curve) 
ixer 33software 
4.4.4 Tile "Correlation" 
If the program module "Correlation" was not included in the scope of delivery of the 
basic program, a separate license for this program module needs to be ordered and 
activated. 
Fig. 29: @ Activation of a license requires at least administrator authorities. 
Tile "Correlation" 
4.4.4.1 License activation 
If the license for the program module "Correlation" was not included in the scope of 
the order, it can be ordered separately from Brabender. You will get a license number 
which must be activated as follows. 
fa 1. To activate the license number for your device, select the tile "About us" and 
nS tap the button in the action bar. 
Button "Service" > The selection window "Service" is opened: 
How do you want to get your update? Please select an action... 
fia) {© web update : | 
>) Remote service == 
J 
| {| nad scense 
Close dialog 
Fig. 30: Selection window "Service" 
2. Inthe selection window "Service", tap the button "Add license". 
> A window for entering the serial number and the license number is 
Button "Add license” opened: | Download log 
‘To activate features, please insert a valid key. 
Serial number 
990485 
Fig. 31: Entry of the license number 
3. In the field "Serial number", enter the serial number of the Brabender device 
to be connected with the MetaBridge software. 
@ The serial number is indicated on the name plate of the device. 
4. In the field “License number", enter the license number you got from 
Brabender. 
34 Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixerrn __ Bbeeridas sortmers 
5. Confirm your entries with "OK". 
> A message window "License number activated" appears. 
License number activated 
9438-7815-9784-6770 
Fig. 32: | Message window “License number activated" 
6. Close the message window. 
> The window for entering the serial number and the license number 
appears once more in order to activate further licenses, if any. 
To activate features, piease insert a valid key. 
Serial number 
4930486 
Ox 
Fig. 33: Entry of license number 
7. If no further licenses are to be activated, tap "Close" to close this window. 
> The window "About us" appears again. 
BE 8. Tap the button "Back to start screen" in order to return to the start screen. 
ae > The new program module can now be used. 
Button "Back to start 
screen" 
The tile "Correlation" includes two functions. 
Please select an action... 
=) Create new correlation 
[es | toad correlation J 
Close dialog 
Fig. 34: Selection of correlation functions 
rS Create new correlation 
= | Load correlation 
Upon selection of one of these functions, the corresponding window appears. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 35MetaBridge software 
4.4.4.2 Create new correlation 
Tapping the button "Create new correlation" opens the window “Correlation 
parameters". 
ee 
Sample 
ROFS 
Psa Es 
Fig. 35: Window "Correlation parameters" for a new correlation 
Buttons in the action bar 
(i) Description of button functions 
shows a description of the button functions 
& Load correlation 
+ opens a window for loading a saved correlation 
.o) Tag edito 
allows management of tags (key words) which can be searched for later. 
Please enter some new tags and confirm with "OK". 
Fig. 36: Entry mask for tags 
Back to start screen 
returns to the start screen 
ce Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerMetaBridge software 
Procedure for creating a new correlation 
1. Fill in the entry mask “Correlation parameters" as required. 
2. Tap the field “Add tests" in the left bottom. 
> A list of saved tests that can be selected for the correlation opens. 
3. Select the desired tests. 
@ Selection is facilitated by tapping the button “Show preview" before 
starting the selection which opens a preview of the individual tests 
selected. 
4. Tap the field "Start correlation" under the list of tests. 
> The correlation is created and shown. 
RP d+ fo | 
ROAD HA 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerMetaBridge software 
CG 
38 Buttons in the action bar 
Description of button functions 
shows a description of the button functions 
Enable/disable zoom 
@ See details in the chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window" 
Show/hide numerical details 
@ See details in chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window". 
Enter/edit comments 
@ See details in chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window". 
Edit correlation 
opens again the list of saved tests for adding further tests to the correlation or for 
deleting tests from the correlation. 
Change correlation mode 
switches between normal display of the curve (each test in another color) and series 
view (all series, e.g. all mean values, in the same color). 
Change evaluation 
opens a window for selecting another evaluation method. Upon confirmation with 
"Apply", the test is evaluated anew according to the selected evaluation. 
Print 
opens a window for selecting a printer. 
@ For printer setup see chapter 4.5.6 "Tile "Options". 
Export 
enables export of the correlation as an e-mail or download. 
@ First tap the button "Export", then select the test(s) to be exported. Otherwise, 
the test tapped first witl be exported. 
@ See details in chapter 4.4.2.3 "Evaluation". 
Furthermore, the button "Export" enables creation of a reference curve from the 
correlation. The program calculates the reference curve from the bandwidth given 
by the correlation in each point of the curve. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerSs 
om _MetaBridge software 
1. Tap the button "Create reference curve” in the selection window. 
> A window for defining the bandwidth (tolerance range) of the reference 
curve is opened: 
Create rifierence curve 
Fig. 38: Window "Create reference curve" 
Bandwidth Factor by which the original bandwidth of the 
correlation is enlarged 
Max. bandwidth maximum bandwidth of the reference curve 
Min. bandwidth minimum bandwidth of the reference curve 
@ Equal values for max. and min. bandwidth create a tolerance range with 
a constant band width. 
2. To create the reference curve, tap the field "Next". 
> A window with the individual values of the reference curve including 
lower and upper limits is shown. 
Diagram settings 
© See details in chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window". 
The buttons in the action bar enable further settings. 
I Axis settings 
® See details in chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window". 
E Correlation settings 
enables settings concerning representation of the individual curves or 
series. 
Back to previous page 
returns to the previous page. 
Back to previous page 
returns to the previous page. 
Back to start screen 
returns to the start screen 
% MixMB for Mixer 39MetaBridge software 
40 4.4.4.3 Load correlation 
1. Tap the button "Load correlation”. 
=> The list of saved correlations appears: 
Fig. 39: Window “Load correlation" 
2. To load a correlation, select the desired correlation in the list. 
> The correlation is loaded and can now be treated just like a newly 
created one. 
@ For editing a correlation, see chapter 4.4.4.2 “Create new correlation" 
Description of button functions 
shows a description of the button functions 
Show preview 
shows a preview of the correlation selected. 
@ First tap the button "Show preview", then select the desired correlation(s). 
Otherwise, the correlation tapped first will be opened. 
Delete 
deletes the selected correlation(s) from the list. 
@ First tap the button "Delete", then select the desired correlation(s). Otherwise, 
the correlation tapped first will be opened. 
Import 
opens a window for importing correlations. 
Back to start screen 
returns to the start screen 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerMetaBridge software 
4.4.5 Tile “Reference curve" 
Reference curve The tile "Reference curve” enables loading of a reference curve and adding it into a 
diagram (see fig. below). The buttons in the action bar allow to delete reference 
curves from the list or to import further reference curves. 
Fig. 40: @ For creating a reference curve from a test, please refer to chapter 4.4.3 "Tile 
Tile "Reference curve" "Load", description of the buttons "Add reference curve” and "Remove 
reference curve”. 
@ In the field "Search..." in the right top, you can search for a certain test. 
son anne certo sec 18 AE » sao ote tt 
Aericine 196 * seaman 6 ’ convteemrt + sonea mt me 
Fig. 41: Window "Load reference curve" 
Buttons in the action bar 
Description of button functions 
shows a description of the button functions 
Delete 
& deletes the selected reference curve(s) from the list. 
@ First tap the button "Delete", then select the desired reference curve(s). 
Otherwise, the reference curve tapped first will be opened. 
import 
opens a window for importing reference curve(s). =| 
Back to start screen 
returns to the start screen 
Software MetaBridge® Mix MB for MixerMetaBridge software 
Methods 
Fig. 42: 
Tile "Methods" 
Boe) &@ eC 446 Tile "Methods" 
A method combines all data that clearly define the test conditions. In order to avoid 
the necessity of entering every individual value anew when frequently changing the 
test conditions, these values can be saved as a method. 
Certain methods may have been factory installed as default methods which cannot 
be deleted. 
Tapping the tile "Methods" opens the method window of the method currently active 
(see fig. below as an example). 
@ The buttons "Rename method” and "Delete method" on the right beside the 
entry field of the method name turn active only after definition of at least one 
user-specific method. 
ia) 
— . Ps peee Bl saps aon a me Pasion Gsloio a ste at fl veges 2 ra) 8 = ee Bos ‘Sened [1émin} = ‘Spee opie. bal 
oe a = L] ‘werner et _ OPO RM ey pe e 7 E = stam oes hn an) a See te ee 
av. 
= 
Fig. 43: Window "Methods" 
Description of button functions 
shows a description of the button functions 
Method 
opens the method window 
Speed profiles 
opens the "Speed profiles" window 
Temperature profiles 
opens the "Temperature profiles” window 
Back to start screen 
returns to the start screen 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixerra 
Button "Create new 
method” 
A 
oe Button "Rename 
Method” 
w 
Button "Delete 
method” MetaBridge-somtwate 
4.4.6.1 Create a new method 
1. To create a method, tap the button "Create new method" behind the entry field 
"Method". 
> A window for entering a name for the new method is opened. 
2. Enter a name and confirm with "Apply". 
> The method window now shows the name of the new method, and the 
entry fields are open. 
3. Edit all entry fields as desired. 
4. Confirm your entries with "Apply". 
> The method is saved and can now be selected in the parameter window 
when starting a new test. 
4.4.6.2 Rename a method 
Ct) The method to be renamed must be active in the method window. 
1. To rename the method currently active, tap the button "Rename method" 
behind the entry field "Method". 
> A window for entering a new name for the current method is opened. 
2. Enter a new name and confirm with "Apply". 
> The method window is shown again, now showing the new name in the 
field "Method". 
4.4.6.3 Delete a method 
@ The method to be deleted must be active in the method window. 
1. To delete the method currently active, tap the button "Delete method" behind 
the entry field "Method". 
> The software asks whether you really want to delete this method. 
2. To delete the current method, tap "Yes". 
> The method window is shown again, now showing "-/-" in the field 
"Method" 
43MetaBridge software 
O Button "Speed 
profiles" 
8 Button "Temperature 
profiles" 
44 4.46.4 Create, rename, delete speed profiles 
@ The profile types available differ depending on the program. 
1. For showing/editing profiles (speed, temperature), tap the corresponding 
button in the action bar of the method window. 
> The window of the corresponding profile appears. 
e Depending on whether a corresponding profile is has been activated or 
not, the profile will be shown or a corresponding message will appear. 
Speed praie SAR 
ie, Acton 
Hale a 3 ~H 
bem “f 5 L] 
2 tats | Ro so Bo oossc0. Bos: 
4 Meer Bx Bo oh:30 am : ed 
era 
Fig. 44: Window "Speed profiles” (example) 
2. Tapping the arrow behind the field with the profile name opens a list of profiles 
available. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixerrl 
Button "Create new 
profile" Create a new profile 
1. For creating a new profile, tap the button "Create new profile" behind the entry 
field of the profile name. 
> A window for entering the name of the new profile opens. 
Enter a name and confirm with "Apply". 
> The profile window now shows the name of the new profile and the 
message "The profile is empty’. 
‘Speed profiles D 
al tsi soeestt/ain} one ome mt 
Sa 28 
The profile is empty a] 
femet 
fe [Sey anis ee 
Fig. 45: | Window of an empty profile (example) 
The buttons on the right beside the profile have the following functions: 
adds a line at the end of the profile 
inserts a line above the line marked 
deletes the marked line upon confirmation of the safety question 
Edit the profile according to your needs. In the column “Action”, define whether 
the value entered is to be held ("Hold") or reached as target value within the 
time entered ("Ramp"). 
Tap "Apply” in order to save the new profile. 
> The new profile can now be used. 
v MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 45MetaBridge software 
A 
ny Button "Rename 
profile" 
i i Button "Delete 
profile” 
E 
46 Rename profile 
@ The profile to be renamed must be active in the corresponding profile window. 
1. For renaming the profile currently active, tap the button "Rename profile" 
behind the entry field of the profile name. 
> A window for entering a new name for the current profile is opened. 
2. Enter a new name and confirm with "Apply". 
> The profile window is shown again, now showing the new profile name. 
Delete a profile 
@ The profile to be deleted must be active in the corresponding profile window. 
1. For deleting the profile currently active, tap the button "Delete profile" behind 
the entry field of the profile name. 
> The software asks whether you really want to delete this profile. 
2. Tap "Yes" in order to delete the current profile. 
> The profile window is shown again, now showing "-/-" in the field of the 
profile name. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerFig. 46: 
Tile "Alarm" 4.4.7 Tile "Alarm" 
The tile "Alarm" enables setting of alarms for certain parameters. When the 
measuring values fall below or exceed the range defined here, the corresponding 
alarm is given. 
Tapping the tile "Alarm" opens the alarm profile currently active (see fig. below as an 
example). 
@ The buttons "Rename alarm profile” and "Delete alarm profile’ on the right 
beside the entry field of the profile name turn active only after definition of at 
least one user-specific alarm profile. 
@ To create, rename and delete alarm profiles, please follow the corresponding 
instructions in chapter 4.4.6.4 "Create, rename, delete speed profiles" 
o 
a . raw #! 
we es ws ove ot 
2 em Foo Baa B “i 
Torase EB ooo :} 008 i} go 
2 bucket Bo 28t Heo ] 
© Viousi: estoy 9 gupta log 8 Auciote: nea sind ® rine © ew: 
Fig. 47: Window "Alarm profiles" (example) 
Software MetaBridge® |ixMB for \Vixer 47MetaBridge software 
46 
Bok 
oO 
FAQ a 
®© 
X 4.5 General tiles 
4.5.1 Buttons in the action bar of the general tiles 
The buttons in the action bar of most of the general tiles are identical in order to 
provide for quick access from any general tile to each other. 
Description of button functions 
shows a description of the button functions 
About us 
shows contact of the Brabender Customer Service and some important device data. 
Our products 
shows the Brabender product range of the Chemical sector. 
Manual 
link to the instruction manual of your Brabender device 
Show FAQ 
opens a list of frequently asked questions and the corresponding answers. 
Feedback 
direct contact with Brabender 
Brabender in the web 
link to the Brabender homepage (only visible on external terminals) 
Brabender on YouTube 
link to Brabender application and information clips on YouTube (only visible on 
external terminals) 
Software MetaBridge® MixiB for Mixer Service 
r/ opens a selection window with options for a software update or for a remote service 
meeting: 
How do you want to get your update? 
Please select an action... 
|F| File update 
[G3) web update j 
[@D| Remote service | 
[Ea[ Cowntoad tos J 
[Bi | Aca sicense | 
Fig. 48: Service selection window 
Tap the corresponding button and follow the instructions. 
t | file update 
web update 
&| remote service request 
download log 
add license 
||] Back to start screen 
EB returns to the start screen 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 49software 
Fig. 49: 
Tile "Hardware" 
Fig. 517: 
Tile "Time/date" 4.5.2 Tile “Hardware” 
The tile "Hardware" shows the current state of the individual hardware modules (e.g. 
drive unit on/off, heating on/off). 
G& In this window, you can start/stop the individual hardware modules manually. 
You have always the manual control 
over the hardware 
Drive is ON 
Temperature is ON 
Close 
Fig. 50: Hardware window 
4.5.3 Tile "Time/date" 
The tile "Time/date" shows the local time and date of the respective terminal. 
@ This tile just displays the local time and date, you cannot make any settings 
here. 
® For time and date setting, please refer to chapter 4.5.6.1 "General settings” 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixersoftware 
4.5.4 Tile "MultiDevice" 
The tile "MultiDevice" enables paralle! operation and control of up to four instruments 
with the MetaBridge software. Tapping the tile "MultiDevice"” changes some of the 
function tiles of the MetaBridge start screen as shown below as an example in order 
to install and manage further instruments. 
Fig. 52: 
Tile "MultiDevice” 
Ee 
& 
= 
% 
Fig. 53: — Start screen "MultiDevice" (example) 
1 instrument tiles 4 Tile Feedback 
2 Tile FAQ 5 Tile Network devices 
3 Tite Device Management 6 Direct access to the devices 
The four buttons "1" - "4" in the right bottom beside the start screen enable direct 
access to the different devices. The top button opens an overview window of all 
devices connected (see fig. below). 
Fig. 54: Overview window of all devices connected (example)) 
‘Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 54MetaBridge software 
Button "Service" 
Button "Add license” 
52 4.5.4.1 Installation of a new device 
@ If the MetaBridge controller is included in the scope of delivery, the license for 
the corresponding device usually has been activated. In this case, you just 
need to define the inverter and the COM ports (see instructions below). 
2. If the software was ordered without MetaBridge controller, you got a license 
number for the corresponding Brabender device which needs to be activated 
first. Upon activation of the license, the device must be installed in the 
MetaBridge software. 
To activate the license number for your device, select the tile "About us" and 
tap the button “Service” in the action bar. 
> The selection window "Service" is opened: 
Haw do you want to get your update? 
Please select an action... 
[F | hie voate 
[@9| web wpndate 
GDI Remote service 
{| Download log 
| | Aaa fcanse 
Fig. 55: — Selection window "Service" 
In the selection window "Service", tap the button "Add license”. 
> A window for entering the serial number and the license number is 
opened: 
To activate features, please insert a valid key. 
Serial number 1930486 _ 
Fig. 56: —_ Entry of the licence number 
In the field "Serial number", enter the serial number of the Brabender device 
to be connected with the MetaBridge software. 
@ The serial number is indicated on the name plate of the device. 
In the field "License number", enter the license number you got from 
Brabender. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer10. 
11. Confirm your entries with "OK". 
2 A message window "License number activated" appears. 
License number activated 
9438-7815-9784-6770 
Fig. 57: Message window “License number activated" 
Close the message window. 
> The window for entering the serial number and the license number 
appears once more in order to activate further licenses, if any. 
If no further licenses are to be activated, tap "Close" to close this window. 
> The window “About us" appears again. 
Tap the tile "MultiDevice" on the start screen. 
> The “MultiDevice" start screen appears. 
To connect the device with the MetaBridge software, tap the tile “Edit 
Device 2" (or any other free tile "Edit Device x"). 
> A window for entering the serial number and the device type opens. 
Please enter the following data. 
Fig. 58: — Entry of basic data for a new device 
Enter the serial number and type of the Brabender device (mandatory fields). 
In the line "Device name", you may enter a device name which will appear on 
the tile "MetaBridge” on the start screen of this device. The default name is 
"Brabender" 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 52software 
12. Tocontinue, tap the field “Continue”. 
> The device initializes, then the startscreen of the new device appears 
with the window “Hardware configuration" on top. 
The hardware has not been configured yet. If you 
cancel this action, a simulation wii be started. 
Fig. 59: | Message “Hardware has not been configured yet" (Example) 
@ The number and designation of the COM ports varies depending on the 
device. 
For device configuration, the device must be connected with the 
MetaBridge controller and must have been switched on. 
13. Inthe line "USB converter", select the USB converter connected. 
> Allocation of the COM ports follows automatically. 
14. To finish, tap the field "Apply". 
> The MetaBridge start screen of the new device appears and the device 
can now be operated with the MetaBridge software. 
@ To change over to another device, tap the tile "MultiDevice", then tap the tile 
of the corresponding device. 
45.4.2 Tile "FAQ" 
rAQ The tile "FAQ" lists both general and device-specific FAQs and the corresponding 
answers. 
@ This page can also be opened with the button "FAQ" in the action bar of the 
Fig. 60: general tiles. 
Tile "FAQ" 
54 Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerFig. 61: 
Tile "Device 
Management" 
Field 4.5.4.3 Tile "Device Management” 
The tile "Device Management" enables management of the devices installed in the 
MetaBridge software. Tapping this tile opens the following window (example). 
The Device Management allows adding new 
devices and managing them 
Bracco MixMB x 
Device 3 
ais 
Devica 4 
4 
Fig. 62: Window "Device management" (example) 
The fields in this window have the following functions: 
Function 
Mina, The fields with device names allow switching over between the different devices 
installed 
@ The tile "MetaBridge” on the left top of the respective start screen indicates 
the device currently active. 
The fields "add devicw 1/2/3/4” allow installation of devices with an existing, free 
license in the MetaBridge software. 
@ License activation and installation of the device in the MetaBridge software 
are done via the button "Service". 
This button deletes the corresponding device from the MetaBridge software, e.g. if 
all instrument fields are occupied but you want to install another device. 
(@) The license for the deieted device will not be deleted. Tapping the field “add 
Device ...", the device can be re-connected to the MetaBridge software 
whenever needed. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 55software 
Fig. 63: 
Tile "Feedback" 
Network devices 
Fig. 65: 
Tile "Network devices" 45.4.4 Tile "Feedback" 
The tile "Feedback" opens a mask for directly contacting and sending a message to 
Brabender. 
so 
HQ#OREB SE 
a as 
Fig. 64: Feedback mask 
If known, select the Brabender department you want to contact. 
Completely fill in all other entry fields. 
3. Upon entry of your message, tap the field "Send" in order to send your 
message to Brabender. 
> The responsible employee will contact you as soon as possible. 
45.4.5 Tile “Network devices" 
The tile "Network devices" lists all devices connected in a separate window (see fig. 
below). Tapping one of the devices opens the corresponding start screen. 
Network Devices 
MixMB 
2 See 
Mix¥B 
PrEstrs) 
Fig. 66: | Window "Network devices" 4 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerMotaBridge SOIWware 
45.5 Tile "Manual" 
The tile "Manual" opens the instruction manual (PDF) of your Brabender device. 
Fig. 67: 
Tile "Manual" 
Fig. 68: PDF instruction manual (example) 
4.5.6 Tile “Options” 
On the tile "Options", you can make some general settings (time, language), general 
device settings (device name, alarms, etc.), network settings and several diagram 
settings. 
Fig. 69: 
Tile "Options" 
¥! 
B 
L 
L 
asin ph aera rae Ceca ee ao& “erga tensed | EB fej L] 
“Tevogertorn aegy 4} bates art fet [vet . In fas g =a 
‘sap dear cation * (2) 200 mor 
‘ar ha df set s 
rit eit a et at 
Gown 
sieueton note 
‘Send paraety Yo tnpaature contro 
‘Print euatomar ep 
ete and ine Flgeday MAPLOME wATIED AE 
Fig. 70: Tile "Options", window "General settings" 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerMetaBridge software 
38 OT @adx¥o 
‘% Ie Buttons in the action bar 
Description of button functions 
shows a description of the button functions 
General settings 
opens the window "General settings". 
Network settings 
opens the window "Network settings”. 
Diagram settings 
opens the window "Diagram settings” 
Axis settings 
opens the window "Axis settings”. 
Series settings 
opens the window "Series settings". 
Correlation settings 
opens the window "Correlation settings” 
eb This button only appears if the corresponding correlation module has been 
activated. 
Measuring view 
opens the window "Measuring view" 
Lims 
opens the window "Lims settings” serving as an access to the measuring data for a 
Lims program. 
Service settings 
opens the window "Service settings” 
@ This button is only visible for administrators. 
Back to start screen 
returns to the start screen 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer4.5.6.1 software 
General settings 
Tapping the tile "Options" (or tapping the button "General settings’ in any other 
window) opens the window "General settings" (see previous fig.). 
Entry fields of the window “General settings" 
e Device 
Field Entry 
SS re —e—e0 ees 
Device name 
(mandatory field) The entry has been set in factory and will appear above 
the model name on the tile "MetaBridge". The device 
name can be edited by the administrator. This field is a 
mandatory field. 
Device description Here, you can enter any description of your device. 
Loading peak search 
interval Set the time range in which a maximum is recognized as 
loading peak. 
Torque threshold 
‘Temperature range (+) 
before start of test Set the torque value which must be reached for 
automatic test start. 
Before test start, the software verifies whether the 
setpoint temperature has been reached. Enter the 
tolerance range for starting the test. 
Stop drive after 
calibration When enabled, the drive motor stops automatically after 
torque calibration and the test needs to be started 
manually with the "Start" button. 
Stop motor at test end When enabled, the drive motor stops automatically at the 
end of the test. 
Alarm at the end of the 
test When enabled, an alarm/a message is given at the end 
of the test. 
Print at the end of the 
test When enabled, the test is printed automatically when 
completed. 
Sound When enabled, an acoustic signal is given e.g. when 
another user logs in or in case of an error (wrong entry, 
missing entry in a mandatory field). 
Simulation mode Enables simulation of tests without a device connected. 
@ For running real tests, this function must have 
been disabled. 
Send parameters to 
temperature 
controller 
Print customer logo 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer When activated, the parameter set of the connected 
measuring mixer is transmitted automatically to the 
temperature controller before heating starts. 
cB If this option is disabled, wrong parameters can 
cause faulty measurements. 
Enable this function for including a customer logo on your 
printouts. 
> A window for loading the logo opens. 
59MetaBridge software 
e General settings 
Field Entry 
————— a 
Language Selection of the language 
Date and time Here, you can set the local date and time. These data 
may differ from the data shown on the tile "Time/date” if 
the measuring device and the terminal are located in 
different time zones. 
1. Tap the line "Date and time”. 
> The following windows appear one after another. 
Please select the current date 
< dune 2016 > 
Su Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 
1 2 3 #4 Please select the current time 
eee 
5 6 7 @ $ 0 1 - 
12 13 14 «159 17 18 0 7 
19 20 21 22 23 24 26 v7 
26 27 28 2 30 
Next Cance 
Fig. 71: Setting of date Fig. 72: Setting of time 
2. Set the correct values, then close the window with 
"Next". 
> Date and time are taken over. 
Export file name Here you can define the composition of the file name of 
your export files. By means of the arrows, you can move 
the variables in this window. 
Tapping the entry field opens the following window: 
‘ARA Sample :D_OF 
Export file name Fig. 73: 
1 Manual entry fields 3 Variables currently used 
2 Available variable presently not 4 Representation of the current 
used composition of the file name 
e Units 
Here, you can set the units and calibration values, if applicable, required for your device. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixersoftware 
4.5.6.2 Network setting, printer setup 
— Tapping the button "Network settings” opens the window "Network settings" (see fig. 
fom) xt below). 
Re quer rrr ga x | 
Fig. 74: Tile "Options", window “Network settings” 
@ Settings in this window can only be made by an administrator. 
e Network settings 
In_ case of an existing cable network and DHCP 
1, Connect the Brabender device via a LAN cable with the LAN wail socket. 
@ There are no further settings required, the fields under "Network 
settings" will be filled in automatically. This is the default setting. 
> The device can be accessed via the IP address, e.g. 
http://192.168.0.100 
or, with a DNS server, via 
http://[device name (entry on the tile "Options")] 
factory setting: http://Brabender 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixersoftware 
Assignment of a fixed |P address 
1. Connect the Brabender device via a LAN cable with the LAN wall socket. 
2. Disable the option "DHCP enabled. 
3. Fill in all entry fields as desired. 
@ Entries in these fields imply sound IT and network knowledge! 
> The device can be accessed via the IP address, e.g. 
http://192.168.0.100 
or, with a DNS server, via 
http://[device name (entry on the tile "Options")] 
factory setting: http://Brabender 
Working without network 
1. Disable the option "Cable network enabled” 
* Wi-Fi settings 
1. To establish a Wi-Fi connection, activate the box "Activate Wi-Fi". 
> The software shows a list of all Wi-Fi networks available. 
2. To activate a hotspot, activate the box "Activate hotspot". 
=> A window for entering a name and a password for the hotspot is 
opened. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixersoftware 
e Printer setup 
Setup of a network printer 
@ Both the Brabender device and the printer must have been connected to the 
network. 
@ The quality of the printout may vary depending on the internet browser used. 
1. Tap the tile "Load" and load a saved test. 
2. Tap the button "Print” in the action bar of the test diagram. 
> The print preview appears (see fig. below). 
@ If no printer has been set up yet, the default printer set in this window 
shows "Save as PDF" (see fig. below, detail on the left). 
Fig. 75: Print preview 
3. Tap the button "Change..." on the left below the line “Save as PDF" 
> The window "Select a destination" appears: 
© Select a destination 
Qos 
Recent Destinations 
Save as POF 
Fig. 76: Window "Select a destination" 
Software |ietaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 63software 
4. In the window "Select a destination” in the line "Local destinations", tap 
"Manage". 
> The window "Print Settings - localhost” appears: 
ice Poet sevings bestest 
nani Fesne Men ee 
= a ecg Contig yt 
Corot 
Fig. 77: Window “Print Settings - localhost" 
5. in the window “Print Settings - localhost", tap “Add” 
> The window “New Printer" appears: 
the Peieer * 
| Select Davice 
Entar dedice 1 
‘Geneve CUPS POF 
Fig. 78: | Opening the list of network printers 
6. In the window "New Printer’, tap “Network Printer” 
> A list of network printers appears: 
Regs Prictor . 
i Setect Dewice 
Enter device URI 
Gener CUPE-PDF 
HP Color Loserfet CP3525 ( 
HP Lserset soso cere OF mpdornicrep RICON Aen 9 251.073.2 
Find Network Printer 
endows Printer SAMBA 
LPOVLER Host or Prntet 
AppSockeuHP JesDirect 
Ansesnet Printing Pretacat iNt 
smemnet Pmting Protocol fp 
letemet Parting Femtorol 4p 
cms 
Fig. 79: List of network printers 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixersoftware 
7 Tap the desired printer in this list, then tap "Forward". 
> If the printer is found automatically, the following window with the 
printer address appears: 
How Printer x 
» elect Dewice 
Location of the network primer 
Genere GUPS-POF Bee 17224179205 
Ete: (mL bo a 7 Heuaier 
Brotrer OL. 720NVe (Brother 
HE Coke faves Jer CP S92 
HP Lasenfet 4950 Seees i: 
RICOH ation MP RoE ALT2? 
Fing Beetwark Per 
Sines Porter M9 SAMBA 
SPOMLPR Hoss or Peaster 
ApS oCkrEHP terre 
internet Foming Fatal fe 
ee ‘ysernct Penny Proto fy 
Fig. 80: | Window with printer address 
> In this window, tap "Forward" in order to open the window "Installable 
Options" (see fig. below). 
> If the printer is not found automatically, the following window with a 
list of printer drivers appears: 
+ Choose Drives 
Agatts 
Om 
Fey 
ines 
trtetsects 
Fig. 81: List of printer drivers 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Iixer 6566 NetaBridge software 
> In this window, tap "Generic (recommended)", then tap "Forward" in 
order to open a list for selecting a printer driver. 
Peer Feinter * 
Choose Driver 
ate ences CUPS PLE 
APP Gverywhere 
PCL Laser 
POF 
Tax Oveve { 
Kexteoaly { 
Fig. 82: Selection of printer driver 
> Tap the desired driver ("PostScript"), then tap "Forward" in order to 
open the window "installable Options” 
Neus Printee a“ 
inctatteble Options 
“ine seems soperts seibtonat Marcha Bhat fey be nate aon Re grote 
F Bepieser 
Fig. 83: Window "Installable Options" 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerMetaBridge software 
8. In the window "Installable Options”, tap "Forward". 
> A window with the printer name and a description of the printer appears: 
Mew Printer ® 
dud we ws 
Fig. 84: Window with printer name and description 
9. In this window, tap “Apply”. 
> The program asks whether you want to print a test page: 
a sous Yess Page 
Fig. 85: Frage: Testseite drucken 
10. For printing a test page, tap "Print Test Page". 
> The test page is printed on the selected printer. 
@ On a generic printer, the printout frequently appears in black and white only. 
For getting color printouts on the selected printer, proceed as follows: 
1. Search for the homepage of the printer producer. 
2. Search for Linux drivers for the selected printer. 
3. Download the Linux printer driver on a memory stick. 
4. Plug the memory stick into your Brabender device and copy the driver. 
5. For printer setup, please ask your network administrator. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 67MetaBridge software 
@ IMPORTANT 
Upon completion of the printer setup, tap the button "Back to start screen” in 
order to return to the start screen. 
Now, when you tap the button "Print" in the action bar of a loaded test, the 
printer will be shown as destination printer and can be used. 
Setup of an independent printer 
a Setup of an independent printer connected via USB is done the same way as 
described above. The printer must have been connected via USB to the 
Brabender device and both printer and device must have been switched on. 
The printer name will then be shown in the list of printers. 
68 Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixeri) 1 
Software let MetaBridge software 
45.6.3 Diagram settings 
Tapping the button "Diagram settings" opens the window “Diagram settings". 
@ For details, please see explanations concerning the button "Diagram settings" 
in chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window" 
4.5.64 Axis settings 
Tapping the button "Axis settings" opens the window "Axis settings". 
@ For details, please see explanations concerning the button "Axis settings" in 
chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window” 
4.5.6.5 Series settings 
Tapping the button "Series settings" opens the window “Series settings". 
@ For details, please see explanations concerning the button "Series settings" 
in chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window" 
4.5.6.6 Correlation settings 
Tapping the button "Correlation settings" opens the window “Correlation settings 
(see fig. below). Here, the settings for up to 10 tests can be made. 
@ The window "Correlation settings" always lists 10 tests, independent of the 
number of tests in the correlation currently loaded. This is because up to 10 
tests can be loaded and represented in a correlation. 
i) For details, please see explanations concerning the button "Correlation 
settings” in chapter 4.4.4.2 "Create new correlation”70 software 
4.5.6.7 Measuring view 
Tapping the button "Measuring view" allows to select various diagram views. 
@ This function is relevant only when a new test has been started. 
The program always first shows the measuring view set before. For selecting another 
view during a running test, tap the button "Diagram settings” in the action bar of the 
test diagram, then tap the button "Measuring view" 
interval covering the last few 
This view shows the current state of | minutes. 
the measurement within the frame 
‘of the preset measuring time. ‘The observation window moves Plotiar view Stretch view i) 
aS a 
Move Grow ad 
gb 
Classical Brabender view with a ‘The plotter view enables the The stretch view represents the gE 
fixed time interval. observation of a dynamic time data already measured. The 2x18 jg” 
bd 
= c automatically with the time passed. 1s adjusted automatically and grows 
with the measuring time passed, 
This view is recommended for 
expercenced users only because the 
xcaxis ticks change continuously. 
Fig. 86: Tile "Options", window "Measuring view” 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixersoftware 
4.5.6.8 Service settings 
=f @ The button "Service settings" is only visible for administrators. 
Tapping the button "Service settings" opens the window "Service settings" 
eg rr rr aaa 
Fig. 87: Tile "Options", window “Service settings” 
4.5.6.9 Hardware settings 
@ The button "Hardware settings" is only visible for administrators. 
Tapping the button "Hardware settings" opens the window “Hardware settings" 
Begrrrraaxe 
Fig. 88: Tile "Options", window “Hardware settings”Fig. 89: 
Tile "User" 
72 software 
4.5.7 Tile "User" 
Tthe tile "User" opens a selection window with several user functions. 
Please select an action... 
| f& | Log out 
al Change password 
{$3 | User administration 
[©] shut down the device 
Close dialog 
Fig. 90: Selection of user functions 
Log out 
logs out the current user and opens the log-in window. 
HivietaBridge 
niger 
Vc lad, 
L _ Fig. 91: Log-in window 
@ If the option "Keep me logged in” has been enabled, the current user is not 
logged out when the device is switched off. When the device is switched on 
again, the MetaBridge start screen appears immediately. The user will remain 
logged in until he logs out using the button "Log out" 
Change passwort 
opens a window where the user currently logged in can change his password. 
Please enter current password and new 
password and confirm with "OK". 
Fig. 92: | Changing the password 
@ After having changed his password, the current user is logged out 
automatically and must log in anew, if desired. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixersoftware 
i ll User administration 
a@ The user administration is visible for administrators only. 
Tapping this button opens a list of all users with their respective user type 
(administrator/operator) and their last log-in (see fig. below). 
SSS) (i) 
stow uses porseae 18 Bf 
nares 
Ten oem ~~ marsgecion 
ne someoeis te 
Buttons in the action bar 
User settings 
opens the window "User settings” where the different user settings and 
authorities are explained and some general user settings can be made 
Fig. 94: Window "User settings" 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 73a User administration 
opens the window "User administration" 
Fig. 95: Window "User administration" 
Tapping a user in this list opens a window with the log-in data of this user 
(see fig. below). 
@ The administrator can change all these data. Ratna 
oS 
a 
Fig. 96: Window "Edit user" 
Delete user 
opens the window “Delete user" with the list of users. Tapping a user in 
this list opens a safety question and, upon confirmation of this question, 
deletes the user. 
Fig. 97: Window "Delete user" 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerMotePridgs sortwie 
eee Add user 
it opens a window for adding a new user. 
| =|) 
= & 
= a fever ces @ 
— a} = C] 
EE 
Fig. 98: | Window “Add user” 
1. Fill in all entry fields. 
2. In the field "Type of user", set the desired user type for the new 
user: 
@ If the open user registration has been activated in the user 
settings, each new user is registered automatically with the 
“default rights on registration” of the preset user type. These 
authorities can, however, be extended or limited individually 
by the administrator. 
Locked user the user has no authorities, he is just 
added in the system 
Observer can view tests 
Operator can view and edit (run) tests 
Advanced user can view, edit and delete tests and 
methods 
Admin can view, edit and delete tests and 
methods and can manage users 
3. Finally, tap "Create". 
> The window “User administration" is opened with the new 
user being included in the list. 
Shut down the device 
With this button, the internal PC can be run down and the touchscreen can be 
switched off (only in local operation, in remote operation for administrators only, see 
chapter 4.2.2 "Running down the internal PC"). 
© fo; MixerMetaBridge software 
4.5.8 Tile "Our Products” 
our 
Products The tile “Our Products" shows a survey of the Brabender Food or Chemical 
instruments (depending on the section your Brabender device belongs to). 
Fig. 99: 
Tile "Our Products" 
Oe OH EZ @ 
Fig. 100: Window “Our Products” 
Tapping a device opens a PDF file with a detailed description of the respective device 
and its applications: 
Brabender® Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station / Lab-Station EC 
Torque Rneometers for applicational investigations CONNECTING ©! 
and simulation in laboratories PERFORMANCE. HOQeOHZSSSIEO 
bere qnity ia measured. | 
Fig. 101: PDF file of a Brabender device (example) 
76 Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerFig. 102: 
Tile “About us" 4.5.9 Tile "About us" McteBrises Somwar=) 
The tile "About us" lists the contact data of the Brabender Customer Service as well 
as some basic data of your Brabender device which may be needed when contacting 
the Brabender Customer Service. 
The button “Brabender in the web" opens the Brabender Homepage (only from 
external terminals). 
Tapping the button "Brabender on YouTube" opens a list of clips about Brabender 
and the application of many Brabender instruments (only from external terminals). 
SOeSODHRIBGES Brabender? GmbH & Co KG 
Kudhursts. 49-55, 47055 Duisburg, Germany 
445 203 780-131 Servica hotline Sa: cervice@ombendercom Se ‘ab ween brabendercom +49 203 7788-131 
OMB: LAT 
‘ype: 7900060 
su: 4900070 
Mix#t8 Cervelatian (7902060) 
‘Mixer: W SO EHT ‘Max. Torque: 200.9 [Kor] Max. Temperature: $00.0 [°C] ‘Min, Teenperature: -$0.0 °C} Volume: 55 Zanes: 3 
tive: Simulation drive Max. Torque: 999 [em] Max. Speed 998 [L/min] 
Fig. 1 03: Window "About us" 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 77MetaBridge software 
78 Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixerof software 
5 Configuration of the MetaBridge software 
5.1 Presettings in the MetaBridge software at initial start-up 
When the internal PC is started for the first time, some basic presettings need to be 
made once before the measuring program as such can be started. 
1. If not yet done, switch the Brabender device on. 
(O} 2. Press the key "PC ON/OFF" on the Brabender device or on the MetaBridge 
@ controller in order to start the internal PC and the touchscreen, if any. 
Key "PC ON/OFF" => ~~ The key "PC ON/OFF" lights up in white. 
> The internal PC boots. On the touchscreen or on the external terminal, 
the following windows appear one after the other: 
FeNVPRUE Kohsic HiAgare 
i leone: ibaa Kau. arr SF ailke a fat Wullkgaeh 2 
ake 
Fig. 104: Welcome screen 
¥ 
ivietaBridge 
Fig. 105: Title screen 
v 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 79of the a oe software 
Please select a language... 
SE asi 
Site 
Yt 
— Fig. 106: Language selection 
3. Tap the desired language. 
@ The language can be changed at any time in the program. 
> The following window appears. 
Data protection declaration fA 
Scope fi ‘cn ataco cacao rats wer he fae, sen an the eslecton ang use of personal data by the responsible provider Erabencer© Grab B Co. Key fuicasty 1-85, 47085 Ducburg, brabencer ‘com, +49{0}203 7788-6 on this website (hereinafter referred to 82 Provder) ‘Fre lage! baci fr cata protection can be found in the German Federal Data rotecion Act (ESC) and the German Telemedia Act (TMG). 
Access Data / Server Log Files 
‘The Frevider (ar fs webspace provider) collects data (In the form of server fog than ech 3 ea wabate Is acessed. Te wrcessed data include: ‘The agit ef the requested web page, datafile, date and time of the access request, amcont of data vansferred, notification of successful access, bepeeet tye and version, the usar's operating system, referrer URL (the pewizusiy wisited eee), IP address and the requesting provider. 
neti 
Fig. 107: Privacy statement 
4. Read the privacy statement completely, then tap "Accept" 
> The following window appears: 
Please select the current date 
June 2016 
Mo Tu We Th 
1 2 
: 10 8 9 
6M 17 
22 23 24 
29 30 
Fig. 108: Setting the date 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer5. Set the current date, then tap "Next". 
> The following window appears: 
Please select the current time 
nouns bwnaes. secon 
03 C2 i) 
04 C3 46 AM 
og 4 a PM 
06 05 48 
o7 06 19 
Fig. 109: Setting the time 
Set the current time, then tap "Next". 
> The following window appears: 
Create an administrator account 
ear 
Password 
Fig. 110: Creating an administrator account 
Fill in this window completely, then tap "Finish". 
@ The secret question and answer are needed in case you forgot your 
password for logging in again in your account and setting a new 
password. a The presettings for initial startup are now completed. The start screen 
of the Brabender MetaBridge appears. 
If a software was purchased without a MetaBridge controller, you still need to 
activate the license number and to install the corresponding device in the 
software. 
5 Upon license activation, installation of the device and log-in, the start 
screen of the respective device appears. 
If applicable, make further presettings (language, units, etc.) on the tile 
“Options”. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 84of the MetaBridge software 
“oftware MetaBridge® Mix for Mixer 6 Running a test 
6.1 Safety notes, general notes 
Danger of severe burns (iue to hot surfaces, risk of property damage! 
The surfaces of parts of the machine system can reach extremely high temperatures 
during operation and remain very hot even a long time after shutdown! 
Danger of severe burns, danger of damage to the contact surfaces due to hot 
machine parts! 
> 
> Vv Always wear suitable protective gloves when working on the machine system! 
Always ensure there is a sufficient distance for unprotected parts of your body 
and cables, pipelines and hose lines. Keep them away from hot surfaces! 
Do not use the machine as a storage surface! 
Deposit hot machine parts on a suitable, heat-resistant base only! 
Set up clear warning signs beside the hot machine parts in order to avoid 
unintentional touching by third persons! 
Guide/dispose hot product only in appropriate, heat-resistant containers! 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
The software offers the possibility of programming speed profiles. In this context, 
the machine system, controlled by the software, may start automatically from 
standstill position. 
Danger of injuriy, danger of damage to or destruction of the machine system! 
> 
> Never put your hands into the open measuring mixer or insert any tools 
when the drive unit is live! 
Always pull the power plug of the drive unit before undertaking any 
manipulations on the open measuring mixer! 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for |ixer 8384 a test 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
When the feed opening is open, the rotating mixer blades are accessible! 
Danger of most serious injuries, entanglement hazard by the rotating mixer blades 
when the drive motor is running! 
> Never put your hands into the open measuring mixer when the drive unit is 
on! 
> Never work on the measuring mixer with open long hair or with loose 
garments (tie, scarf, shawl or the like) or jewelry! 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
Operation of the machine system in "Local" mode may cause operating troubles 
due to wrong operating parameters. 
Danger of injury, risk of damage to the machine system! 
> In normal operation, always control the Brabender drive unit through the 
software, that means in "Remote" mode! 
> Measurements must not be run in "Local" mode! 
> Use "Local" mode only for short terms and only for cleaning purposes! 
@ As many settings in the software depend on the material to be processed and 
on the entire system configuration, only some general instructions concerning 
the test procedure are given in the following. If you have any questions, please 
do not hesitate to ask the experts of the Brabender laboratory. 
6.2 System preparation prior to each test 
® Concerning preparation of the instrument system and of the sample, please 
refer to the corresponding chapter in the instruction manual of the instrument. 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixertest 
6.3 Test procedure 
@ Concerning the test procedure, please also refer to the corresponding chapter 
in the instruction manual of the instrument. 
1. Tap the tile "New" in the MetaBridge software. 
> The parameter window for entering the test parameters appears (see 
fig. below). 
2. Fill in the parameter window completely. 
@ For entering the test parameters, please refer to chapter 4.4.2.1 
"Parameter window". 
@ In order to prevent switching-off of the drive unit due to excessive 
torque, start with a low speed (20 - 30 min’). 
\n order to make sure that the measuring curve is recorded completely, 
first set a large measuring range. 
New measurement 
« 
& Milter 
%e d 
+ Re) 
Loading chute 
Enter the feeding chute you will use. 
Fig. 111: Parameter window 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerRunning a 
8&6 3. Make sure that the drive unit and the docking station (if applicable) have been 
switched on. 
& Otherwise, the system cannot be calibrated. 
4. To start the measurement, tap the field "Start measurement" 
> The device initializes. 
> The measuring mixer is heated up. 
190.0 
Re 113.1 Etock temperature 250 
Sensor Current Value Set Value 
Start temperature not yet reached, Heating is 
still running. 
Fig. 112: Heating up Fig. 113: Start temperature reached 
5. Wait until all current values have reached the setpoint values and all 
temperatures are constant, then tap “OK". 
> The speed now rises to the setpoint value automatically and the system 
is calibrated. 
Calibration is running, please wait... 
Fig. 114: Calibration 4 Upon calibration, you are requested to fill the mixer or to press "Start". 
@ Upon tapping "Start", recording of the measuring values starts 
immediately, otherwise, recording of the measuring values starts 
automatically when the torque threshold shown in this window is 
exceeded (in the fig. below: 1 Nm). 
10 
0.8 
Please fill the mixer or press "Start" to start 
the measurement. 
Fig. 115: Request to fill the mixer 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerRunning a fest 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage when filling the sample material into 
the mixer without or with an unsuited or wrongly mounted loading device! 
When loading the sample material into the mixer through a wrongly mounted or 
unsuited loading device or without any loading device at all, the rotating mixer 
blades may be partly or fully open. When loading the sample material with the 
pressure ram, the feed opening of the measuring mixer needs to be opened and 
closed several times so that the rotating mixer blades are open. 
Danger of most serious injuries, entanglement hazard! 
> Always use an original Brabender loading device for loading the sample 
material into the measuring mixer! 
> Never load any sample material directly into the the measuring mixer with 
your hands without a properly mounted original Brabender loading device! 
> Always ensure there is a sufficient distance for your hands. Keep them 
away from the feed opening! 
> Never work on the measuring mixer with open long hair or with loose 
garments (tie, scarf, shawl or the like) or jewelry! 
6. Mount the loading device or the chute of the loading device or open the 
pressure lever of the pressure ram. 
@ See separate instruction manual of the measuring mixer. 
7 Fill the sample material into the measuring mixer. 
ri) See separate instruction manual of the measuring mixer. 
> As soon as the starting torque is exceeded (or when the field "Start" is 
tapped), the measuring window with the on-line diagram appears. 
@ Concerning the buttons in the action bar of the measuring window, 
please refer to chapter 4.4.2.2 "Measuring window" 
7 = 
~ IL (: Q 
*| jw [Y  g »| ps 
7 ele, >| Joo§iane 8 
“ jn bio? @& 
. jn i, & sebeve 3 @ ob —— ine}, fy cd 18 re ey s:00 s 
Bees aed 8 oct torgere Biotiee Saris Tammie 
00:31 18.7 45.0 167.3 ‘Brock’ tompersture 
Fig. 116: Measuring window 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 87Running a test 
88 6.4 Test end 
6.4.1 Test end upon expiry of the test time 
Upon expiry of the test time preset, data transmission from the device to the 
MetaBridge is stopped automatically and the evaluation is shown. 
@ The test is saved automatically in the list of tests and. Separate saving of the 
test is not required. 
i) Concerning the buttons in the action bar and the possibilities for editing the 
evaluation, please refer to chapter 4.4.2.3 "Evaluation”. 
yo ytd 
| 
tas | 
ase 
a8 a | 
g} 2002 | es i | 7 
faut yatiyy ssi pe usitilinp IS Ua i din erent) ‘ it 
so fap 
25 oie 
oh se __ a ALPE » 
9:00 4:00 2:09 3:00 4:00 5:00 
Torque 3 Spesd ‘= Stock temperature we Min. Torque Max. Torque eating zone 
‘Stack temperature | bhai iphow 
n res Leeding Peck 
a mane [xn 
i imerc | Inflection Point 
x sere | mpamure End 
Energy Description 
ry 47 ile oeding Muah tr Pheu 
lex 123 ktm nova js ama = = ee (37.4 ktm Maximum te End 
ax eT [Loading Pesk to Maximum i 
ke 149.3 ktm Lending Penk to End (WW) 
eT B22,2kNmvkg |Specite Energy (W/Sampie Moss) 
lex a4 im —~=S™S*« lation Area obove B 
Result 
1:94 rome 
_ TeaoNm/min 
Fig. 117: Evaluation window (here: with reference curve) 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerRunning 2 
6.4.2 Early test end (test abortion) 
The test can be stopped manually any time before expiry of the preset test time. 
stor] 1. Tap the button "STOP" in the action bar beside the measuring window. 
> A window appears asking you whether you really want to stop the test: 
Button "Stop" 
Do you want to cancel the measurement? 
. Fig. 118: Safety question 
2. If you want to stop the test, tap "Yes". 
> Data transmission is stopped. 
> The evaluation with the evaluation points calculated up to the point of 
abortion of the test is shown. 
90 — 
ea 
\ 20 
gq 604 
FE all 
1B soll \ / 
ted || of 
| apt ] S| 
ee J03 sis |e i Es + wae s100 200 200 4:00 “ve foes 
‘ © Torque @ Speed 4 Stock temperatura 
tin. Torque Max. Torque eating zone 1 
Leading Peak 
178.4 °C Minimums 
47.3 °¢ Inflection Paint 
io 100.5 "¢ Mexiroum 
t 300.5 °¢ End 
cohen , _ 
lat <3 hyn Londiog Penk bo Miniewim 
lee ape ‘Minimum te Maximum 
jes BD awn | Maximum tm End 
a 1a thm |Leoding Peak to Meximum 
[ac ‘na wn Lending Peak to End (Wi) 
| (416.1 RNa ___|Spacite Energy (W/Semple Mass) 
lex 1.2 ktirs Goletion Aree above B 
Result 
foatan Tet €1-¥) 01:05 mmiss 
Gautin Speee = 48.6 m/min 
Fig. 119: Evaluation window of a cancelled test 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 89Running a 
90 Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer 7 Annex 
7.1 List of buttons in the MetaBridge software 
Description of button functions 
Back to start screen 
Methods 
Speed profiles 
Temperature profiles 
* or GH O 
Options 
Li tle User parameters 
Tag editor 
Diagram settings 
New measurement 
Enable/disable zoom 
Show/hide numerical details Or 
OOMs 
Enter/edit comments 
Show parameter window 
Change parameter 
Axis settings 
vr Series settings 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerAnnex 
Correlation settings 
Back to previous page 
Stop measurement 
Change evaluation 
Edit/create reference curve 
Remove reference curve & 
oo 
Ev 
bs 
bs 
Jo, Measuring view 
& 
[3 exoos 
[3 Show preview 
tate 
Fin 
fat Load/edit correlation 
A Change correlation mode 
oa 
ht Network settings 
=0 Service settings 
' Hardware settings 
aGe 
i } User administration 
o0e 
beat ings User settin 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for MixerAdd user 
Delete user 
About us 
Qur products Beak & 
Manual 
FAQ Show FAQ 
Feedback ®@ 
x 
Brabender in the web 
You 
Brabender on YouTube 
cm 
RA Service 
Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer An 
93Annex 
94 Software MetaBridge® MixMB for Mixer‘Software MetaBridge® MxM 8 Index 
A 
Alarm oo. ceceee rere receseeeteeeeneneate 47 
Axis SettingS...0.0... cece 24 
c 
Change parameter............ ee 23 
COMMENE ue cert tener certs 22 
Correlation 
Change correlation mode... 
Create new.... 
Settings... ee 
Customer logo «00... 59 
D 
Date and time setting... 60 
Diagram settings........0.00 ee 24 
Diagram ViOWS ....0... ccc 70 
E 
Edit testo... eres 33 
Evaluation... eee eee 26 
Change |... 27, 38 
Export 
Dateiname 00.0... ee eects 60 
L 
Language setting .......... cece 60 
M 
Measuring view 
Measuring window... 
Live-Ticker 
MetaBridge 
Creating an administrator account 
ceevecueeeceseeeeeteeseneeesereaenneaeeteneaeoneae 81 
Language selection oe 80 
PresettingS.............0.0::::ceeeeee 79 
Running down the PC................ 14 
Setting the date .... 
Setting the time 
Start screen oe 15 
Method oo... eee 42 
Create oe eee 43 
Delete oo... cece eee 43 
Mixer REMAMEC..0. eee cece cee teeneteeeees 43 
N 
Numerical view... cere eee 21 
P 
Parameter window 
SHOW oo. reece eter rteeeeeee 22 
Preview............2 ccc cette cerns 31 
Printer Setup 0.0... cece 63 
R 
Reference CUIVG 0... eee 41 
7X (oe 
Edit tolerances... 
Remove 
Remove from diagram................ 28 
Ss 
Serial label... ee 22 
Series 
Select by axis... eee 24 
Select by legend... 24 
Series SetingS 0.0.0... eee 24 
Setting 
Date and time.. 
Correlation 39 
Diagram . 
SOTICS oe eee eeee eee eitees 24 
USEF ore rererees 
Simulation mode. 
Speed profile .. 
Delete neers 46 
RENAME... eee een eeteneee reer eees 46 
T 
Tag editor .... 
Temperature profile 
Crate... eects rteeetenrenere 45 
Delete oo... eee 46 
95Index 
96 ReNAME oo. eee teeter rete 46 
Test 
Edit... eee cee cee etter ete tenne nena 33 
IMPOTth ec eee ec cceecetseeeeeeeeeeneee 32 
Test end 
Abortion oct teeereeeeaes 89 
Expiry of the test time................. 88 
Text 
Show preview .... 
U 
Units 
Setting... eee eeeeeeeee 60 USEF ooo. eee eee eens 72 
AG oer teneeeeneertesereneaes 75 
Change password .............0004 72 
Delete... 
Log out .. 
TYPO ooo. eee teeter ce neers 75 
User settings ... 
User parameters.. 
Zz 
ZOOM FUNCTION... eee rere renee 21 
Software MetaBridge® MixiiB for MixerBrabender® Gmbh &.Co. KS, 
Kulturste. 49-54 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany ~ 
@ Phene +49-203-7788-0 
= E-mail:- brabender@brabender.com 
www.brabender.com Brabender i 
... Where quality is measured: 
C.W. Brabender® Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
G@ Phone +201-343-8425 
Fax +201-343-0608 
fl E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
www.cwbrabender.com 000 «BpaGengep» 
yn. ArogmucKaa, A. 25 
420032 KasaHb 
Pocena 
@ Ten. +7843 23346 66 
ea E-Mail: oo0.brabender@brabender.ru 
www.brabender.com