Brabender’ 
... where quality is measured. 
WA » bf 
~_ a pathy : 7 ‘ 
Instruction;Manual 
= 7 
Aa o \ al wed >, : ‘ , 
= @ EP. ote” —- +6 a a 
“7 *—'*. Ye : 1 
5 aoe ed a «- . , as > , § Lr * \ . «4 > 4 . " 
' a . ba 
Conical Twin Screw Extruder 
KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 
ID no. 8 346 07 
for drive units 
Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station 
Plastograph® EC Plus 
Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG e Kulturstr. 51-55 « 47055 Duisburg e Germany 
@ Phone - 49 - 203 - 7788 - 0 e El Fax - 49 - 203 - 7788 - 101 
2 E-mail: brabender@brabender.com 
Agencies all over the world 
© Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG 2014 Copyright protection DIN 34 
Edition 0814 Instruction Manual No. 834607-000_KDSE-Mark-tll_BA-O1-e | B rab en die r REGISTRATION CARD | Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG 
Important! Please complete and return to: 
Important! Veuillez compléter et retourner a: / Wichtig! Bitte ausfillen und zuriicksenden an: / 
mportante: Voglia completare e rispedire a: / Importante: Haga el favor de completar y devolver a: 
Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG, Kulturstr. 51-55, 47055 Duisburg, Germany 
Tel. No: ++ 49 - 203 - 7788 - 0 
Fax. No.: ++ 49 - 203 - 7788 - 100 
E-mail: brabender@brabender.com 
Please state the Brabender® order no. of your equipment: 
Inscrire ici le numéro de commande Brabender® de votre appareil / Bitte hier die Brabender® Order-Nr. Ihres Gerats eintragen / 
Iscrivere qui il numero d'ordine Brabender® dell'apparecchio / Inscribir aqui el ndmero de pedido Brabender® del aparato 
Ltit tt | | 
USER OF EQUIPMENT 
Utilisateur / Benutzer / Utente / Utitizador 
Title 
Titre / Titel / Titolo / Titulo 
Surname 
Nom / Name / Cognome / Appelido 
First Name 
Prénom / Vorname / Nome / Nombre 
Tel. No. 
Téléphone / Telefon / Numero di telefono / Numero de teléfono 
Fax No. 
Télécopieur / Fax / Numero di fax / Numero de fax Company 
Société / Firma / Ragione Sociale / Nombre de la Compafiia 
Address 
Adresse / Adresse / Indirizzo / Direcci6n 
Country 
Pays / Land / Nazione / Pais 
E-mail 
EQUIPMENT 
Appareil / Gerat / Apparecchio / Aparato 
Instrument / Software 
Instrument / Logiciel 
Apparecchio / Software 
Aparato / Software 
Ident No. 
Version No. (only in case of software / seulement pour logiciel / nur fiir Software / 
solamente per il software / solamente para el software) 
C] If you do not wish your name to be used for marketing purposes, tick this box. 
Si vous ne souhaitez pas que votre nom soit utilisé a des fins commerciales, cochez cette case. / Wenn Sie nicht wiinschen, dass 
Ihr Name fiir Marketingzwecke verwendet wird, kreuzen Sie dieses Feld an. / Spunti questa casella se non desidera che il Suo 
nome venga utilizzato a scopi di marketing. / Marque el recuadro si no desea que su nombre sea usado para razones comerciales.Minimum PC data for running the 
Brabender® Windows software with CAN instruments 
CPU: Minimum: Dual Core CPU 2 GHz 
Memory: Minimum: 4 GB RAM with 32 bit, depending on operating system 
Operating system: | Minimum: Windows XP / Vista/ 7/8 
@ Professional systems only! 
Hard disk capacity: | Each Brabender® program: | The program package requires less than 100 MB 
on the hard disk. 
Depending on the operating system and on the 
software installation status, additional 100 - 500 MB 
hard disk capacity is required. 
2) There must be enough space on the hard 
disk for local saving of measuring data. 
Graphics controller: | Minimum: The display must have a resolution of at least 
1024 * 768 pixel and 16 million colors 
Ports: © USB 2.0 For printer 
© 1 free PCI plug-in port | For CANopen adapter 
with a free slot (full size, 
not low profile!) 
or 
@ 1more USB-Port 2.0 For MSB to CAN 
Printer: Each printer supported by Windows and its printer drivers. For other or new printers, 
please ask the manufacturer. 
a) The active USB instruments connected share the signal band width. For this reason, observe the 
following during operation of Brabender® measuring programs: 
e Do not activate any antivirus scan 
e Do not run any update of your antivirus program 
@ Do not activate any screensaver 
e Close all other programs 
© Do not run any video games 
e Do not run any music CD/DVD in the CD/DVD disk drive of your PC 
Edition: June 2014 Contents 
1 GENERAL INFORMATION........cccccccssersssseecesserssstesssseasnsenrasessnsonerenses TO 
1.1 Use of the instruction Manual... etc eeeeeeenaeeecneneersceseeceseescseeeresesestessasseensaeiaseereniaseneses 11 
1.2 Disclaimer of liability... oe cece eee ec eee eran tases e rae tae senses eeeneaereneeetessereseesnennmiasiaies 114 
1.3. Software 
1.4 Scope of supply... 
1.5 Acquisition of components from external suppliers. 
2 CONTACT .....cceesesesenenenreeeeeenes ee aae ae eee eee eeaneesenenseennenseneneneeeenes seseteeteeeeeeee 13 
3 STYLISTIC FEATURES. ..........::::se ee saeeeseecanensaeeeeeesnneeseseneeransseenesensese EO 
3.1 General stylistic features 0... ccc cece ereeeeeeeceeereeeetececensesesesesasanessseassenasisesiaseseseesesenseseensees 15 
3.2 Mandatory Signs... ees eesenercenscrseesceeseseecesessesasasasaeceseaeaapassagesensisieersisisersnessstarneesseteseaes 15 
3.3 Hazard warning SIQQs.......... cece cececetenetieneeeeceseeeeececsersscianasasesensesisessesieenssensaseseneesereesets 16 
3.4 Design of safety Messages 0... eee eee ese eeeeneeeasescesaeeesaeeasnessasesenserieeasesieeesssecenseeseeeientenss 16 
3.5 De fIMILIONS cece ere recenceeeceseatecsssaneseeseseesseseavaseesatensaseaasasasetensesieeesisiseeceseteneeeeseeieaseney 16 
4 SAFETY .....ceseesecssereeneessestensesneeeees cee eete ee enee nae eeneenenennee 17 
4.1 Intended use... 17 
42 Target group 
4.3 Carrier duties.. 
4.4 Protective devices oo... cece cece cece eee cece reece eect eee cneeeeecec tastes easeceseeseeseeeceeneesseeeeieeeeseeeneneee 19 
4.4.1. Emergency motor stop button at the drive unit* 
4.4.1.1 Position of the emergency motor stop button. 
4.4.1.2 Procedure after actuation of the emergency motor stop button .... 
4.4.2 Emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) 
4.4.2.1 Position of the emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) 
4.4.2.2 Procedure after actuation of the emergency shut-off switch .. 
4.43 Safety device 
4.4.4 Automatic instrument recognition and torque limitation... 
4.4.5 Bursting pin 
4.4.6 Protective cover sheet over the hot processing unit.. 
4.4.7 Protective cover over the screw shaft coupling .. 
4.4.8 Feed hopper on the feed opening 
45 Residual danger 
4.5.1 Rotating screws* - Danger of crushing .. 
4.5.2 Hot surfaces - Danger of burning.... 
4.5.3 Danger by emerging harmful or irritant vapor, gas, or liquid .. 
4.5.4 Danger by electricity 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill {(counter-rotation) 7TRANSPORT AND STORAGE........cscssessersecseeseees Soyeeeeeeeeesevemtenvenesee we dd 
5.1 Packing..... 
5.2 Unpacking ... 
5.3 Checking the scope Of SUPPLY «0... ccc c eter te reece ce tetseseneteeseseessrseasseecserceeetanneneseennteneesateeee 37 
5.4 Checking for and notification Of damage............ccccccesessseeec cre ceceeseeceeeenennetentesseneseneseeronsetereaeits 37 
5.5 ThAMSPOTt ee eeeececcneeencsecseseescsevenaeeeceecanavaesaeeacescestossansnsasesanesaseasanseeeeasensssiceseasnessesensasensanenseeges 38 
5.6 SHOPA GG eee cece ceeecetceereeeeseeeseeeeveeceesecasaeanssssseeseasaneesceccessoscessuasseaussasseesauaceeseneececiseseeneeasenas 39 
COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES .... 
6.1. General description... 
6.2 Product labels. 
6.2.1 Name plate. 
6.2.2 Further product labels. 
6.3 Main components.. 
6.3.1 General description, measuring principle .. 
6.3.2 Processing unit. 
6.3.3 Screws* ee 
6.3.4 Feed hopper.. 
6.4 Connections ... 
6.4.1 Electric connections of the safety devices 
6.4.1.1 Connection of the proximity safety switch ... 
6.4.1.2. Connection of the automatic instrument recognition and torque limitation . 
6.4.2 Heating/cooling connections 
6.4.2.1 Bayonet nipples for control thermocouples . 
6.4.2.2 Heater band cables «0... eects 
6.4.2.3 Cooling air connections at the control zones . 
6.4.2.4 Gear cooling connections................. 
6.4.2.5 Cooling water flanges at the feed zone 
6.4.3 Mains connection... ee eee cee 
TECHNICAL DATA......cccsssesesenssteeeeenens 
7.1 Noise measurement. 
MOUNTING... 0ccccceeseseesenceseeeeeeenensaunnsssnsansccesenscesentannsneenensenees weeeeeeeeeee 5 
8.1 Safety notes concerning MOUNKING...0... cc cece teetetee recente ters ereceeie tenets neaetenestenersaerecetereeetetae 55 
8.2 Requirements to the place Of MOUNTING ........... cece sec este ceeeteeeeee tenets sneee cee teteerettenseteenenerteers 
8.3. Mechanical mounting of the KDSE to the Plastograph® EC Plus* 
8.3.1 Mounting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE on the mobile frame” i 
8.3.2 Mounting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE to the Plastograph® EC Plus* oo... 60 
8.4 Mechanical mounting of the KDSE to the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station 
8.4.1 Mounting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE onto the docking station*.... 
8.4.2 Cooling water/cooling air connections 
8.4.3 Mounting the docking station* with the KDSE to the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station 
8.5 Mounting the feed hopper 
8.6 Mounting the die head™ 0... cece enreteeeerscceceeeceneecaenesaneenecceeeerseceete nese rates sianinaenaesereces 71 
8.7 Mounting the control therMOCoUples «0.0.0... cceceseseee esses ener ee cece ceeceetetenecaenenesaeteseeeserereeeeeretneneniene 72 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 8.8 Mounting of pressure transducer(s)* and melt temperature thermocouple(s)*..............cceeree 73 
8.9 Mounting a vent exhaust DIOCK® oo... reteeseteeeeeseneesesensecasessseseaeerensarateesaeeravesesisaes 75 
8.10 Connections 
8.10.1 Safety devices.. 
8.10.2 Melt temperature and control thermocouples, heater band cables... 
8.10.3 CAN connection 
8.10.4 Cooling connections. 
8.10.4.1 Cooling water connection for gear cooling .. 
8.10.4.2 Cooling water connection for feed zone 
8.10.4.3 Cooling air connection to the barrel control zones... 
8.11 Mounting the screws*.. 
8.11.1 Disassembly of the processing unit ... 
8.11.2 Disassembling/mounting the screws"... 
8.12 Mains connection 
START-UP ......csecseeeeesseeeeeeeeseneeeenseeeeensnes susge sets seedesreswysaeeeseseenesrenremseeee oO 
9.1 Safety notes CONCErNING Start-UP eects esereeteeseeressatersnecsansssaseeensieeecessessasetsesssersiseseeceeses 97 
9.2 Preparations, SWIECHING ON oo... ce eter cer eee ee ene ee nen nesnneneenseeae rane sieeneenesereaeeiseseeesseseaeenees 97 
9.3 Functional check of the safety devices oo... cee eserreeetenereerscneneeercnseesneseenenneateeseniseseanes 98 
9.3.1 Proximity switch safety device 
9.3.2 Emergency motor stop button at the drive unit* . 
9.3.3 Emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) at the drive unit * ... 
9.3.4 Emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) at the docking station*. 
SETUP AND OPERATION ......:cccsccsseesesseresseeeesneesssseassesceesstuenessanrecenns TOT 
10.1 Target Group... eee ce teens cess eeceatecesearassaasessaseesansassasasapenensasenssassssassanesatensisensessssteerseees 101 
10.2 Daily work before start of Operation oo... i cece cence ere recseeseeseecesassasanensacascesesensnensaraneseess 101 
10.3 Running a measurement.... 
10.3.1 General remarks . 
10.3.2 Measurement 
CLEANING........ccccseesssesseeeensnneeesesetneeesaeneseenee eeceeeeeseaenenseneanneeeseeneeseeense TT 
11.1 Safety notes concerning Cleaning ............cecccececie ee estes ee esneseetenee rence neec ee eeeenienee seine neee nineteen 111 
11.2 Cleaning after each test SETIOS eee ceeceteteeee eeeeeeene tree re ceeeeeeneeeeeseeiteeee tees tinennenenessetenenies 113 
MAINTENANCE................ Doe va poe poate suey pus y von uousseeeseeeoressueseeesuneees severe 214 
121 
122 
+123 12.1 Safety notes concerning maintenance... 
12.2 Maintenance intervals . 
12.3 Gear oil change 
TROUBLE-SHOOTING..........essnccsrsenssceees seceneecansersnunnvesansanuunrsonersesserne TOL 
REPAIR............04. a sauevavanaguansnsausenaerasauenuaueuerauesrsscensaseesessses veer 13S 
DISPOSAL 10... .escsecceseeseseretenseceeseerserseneeeoesscnavesavsassasenvansenseusonssasensseraees LOO 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 
o|16 
17 
18 
19 
10 ACCESSORIES .....eeeeceeccecceeceeeeeenseneeererenerneneeenseesszennenineeneenseenenneninen 137 
16.1 Reordering instructions .............cecccccsesc ee crceceseesseneeeteneenereceeseercieeeenenenerneeeecececereseerecaneneeanies 137 
16.2 List Of ACCESSOTIES 00... cece ene eeceseeeterenecae recess taseeeesensaeesseanseseeeeceseaecsenensaneesereeteceecesenentennees 138 
SPARE PARTS ....202--ccccceeeeeeeeeseeecraneunnnnensescesceaenenneeeanessessnanennnnnnneneennes 139 
17.1 Ordering instructions ....... 0... cc ccc cs cees cs ee ee ceceseasteneeeneeesecsnecoeeeeiteeeneneneseesernecsenesesannernters 139 
17.2 Spare parts list 22... ccc ecce cece cec ence cee cee teeeae sane ener see pee coe tasecsaeceeeeseseesecceecoaetassaaetenpeesegeeeserecteeas 140 
SUPPLEMENTARY MODULES, ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT............ 141 
18.1 Ordering inStrUctions ......0..c ccc er ccs ceneneeceneneneee cece ieencanacenceerircns tenet ne naaeeatnererecetae 141 
18.2 List of supplementary MOGUIES «22... ccc cee cceeeeeee eee ce eeneee ce ceeaeneteeeeneenereceseensteseaaeensncaneree® 142 
ANNEX... .cecceeeeeeeeceeeee cere ee ee eee e eee nn nerd neeeeeeeee 143 
19.1 Electrical documents, wiring diagrams... cece sseecsees secs cecceereeeeeenssieenesseeecineeranenenser 143 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)4 GENERAL INFORMATION 
Read the manual thoroughly! 
Strictly observe instructions and 
safety instructions! 
Keep and hand over 
together with the instrument! 
Keep instruction manual 
accessible at any time! 1 GENERAL INFORMATION 
1.1 Use of the instruction manual 
Brabender® instruments/software are developed/designed and built 
according to the state-of-the-art and comply with the demand for 
simple and safe handling. In order to become familiar with the 
applications and to use the Brabender® instrument/software in an 
optimum way, it is imperative to study this instruction manual very 
carefully before putting the Brabender® instrument into operation. 
The instructions, safety instructions and precautions given in the 
present instruction manual have to be observed strictly. 
This instruction manual was supplied together with the Brabender® 
instrument/software and is intended for operation in practice. It is to 
make the operating personnel familiar with the Brabender® 
instrument/software and to inform them about details concerning 
transport, storage, mounting, start-up, operation, maintenance, 
trouble-shooting, and disposal. 
Maintenance and service instructions must be observed for reasons 
of effective operational safety and a long lifetime of the Brabender® 
instrument. 
This instruction manual is, therefore, to be considered part of the 
Brabender® instrument/software and must be kept and handed over 
together with the instrument/software. 
The operating personnel as well as the personnel in charge of 
maintenance and repair must always have free access to this 
instruction manual. 
1.2 Disclaimer of liability 
Within the scope of legal regulations, Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG 
refuses any liability - for whatever legal argument - for direct or 
indirect damage caused in connection with the delivery or use of the 
Brabender® instrument/software. This is in particular true for - but not 
limited to - improper use and/or improper operation and handling of 
the Brabender® instrument/software. 
In this context, Brabender® explicitly excludes any warranty for wear 
parts, in particular for those with product contact. 
Under no circumstances, Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG can be made 
liable for any damage or injuries caused by non-observance of the 
safety regulations included in the data sheets of the producer of 
substances to be tested or processed with the Brabender® 
instrument. This is also valid if a recommendation was made 
concerning the application of certain substances and/or if the 
provision of test material is part of the scope of supply and service. 
The Brabender® instrument is subject to modifications of color and 
design as well as to technical modification without prior notice. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 111 GENERAL INFORMATION 
1.3 Software 
The Brabender® software is developed with due care and is tested 
internally - within the frame of general safety standards also for 
computer virus. This does, however, not involve any warranty 
whatsoever that the data carriers provided by Brabender® and/or 
data transmitted electronically by Brabender® are virus free. 
It is within the exclusive responsibility of the user to test the 
Brabender® software by means of state-of-the-art virus searching 
programs and to make sure that only Brabender® software is applied 
which has been duly tested for computer virus by the user and has 
been found virus free. 
Any claims under material damage liability for functioning, 
faultlessness, and usability of Brabender® software and/or for 
Brabender® software being virus free are, therefore, excluded. 
Our liability for any other damage arisen by the use of the 
Brabender® software is limited to intent or gross negligence. Any 
further liability - for whatever legal argument, in particular for direct or 
indirect consequential damage - is excluded. 
The software is subject to modification serving functional 
improvement and technical progress without prior notice. 
Due to continuous progress and development of the software, the 
screen dumps included in the present instruction manual may slightly 
differ from the software version supplied. 
1.4 Scope of supply 
The scope of supply is given in the shipping documents. 
Any special tools required for mounting are listed in chapter 16 
"Accessories". Apart from these, customary tools like screw-drivers, 
etc. are required for mounting, cleaning, and maintenance. 
1.5 Acquisition of components from external suppliers 
Brabender® cannot guarantee that any components bought by the 
carrier/user from external suppliers and incorporated into the system 
without prior consultation of Brabender® will be recognized correctly 
by the Brabender® software and will work properly within the system. 
a Brabender® urgently recommends contacting the Brabender® 
Service dept. before installing such foreign components. 
12 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)2 CONTACT 
All data on the name plate 
Inquiries concerning software: 
state ID no. and version no.! 
Contact 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 2 CONTACT 
D. ata to be stated in case of inquiries 
If there are any inquiries to Brabender® - e.g. relating to handling of 
the Brabender® instrument/software, ordering of spare parts, 
accessories, additional equipment or to sending back Brabender® 
instruments or instrument parts for maintenance or repair - all data 
given on the name plate must be stated. 
@ Concerning the name plate, please refer to chapter 6.2.1. 
For questions concerning the Brabender® software, the ID no. of the 
software and the version no. must be stated. 
Contact 
For any questions, further information, or in case of problems with 
the Brabender® instrument/software, please do not hesitate to 
contact the Brabender® customer service/Service department. 
Contact: Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG 
Kulturstrae 51 - 55 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
@ Phone -49-203-7788-0 
& E-mail: service@brabender.com 
North American Regions 
Contact: C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
@ Phone 201-343-8425 
ea E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
132 CONTACT 
a 
14 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)3 STYLISTIC FEATURES 
3 STYLISTIC FEATURES 
3.1 General stylistic features 
The following stylistic features are used in the instruction manual: 
* marks optional or additional equipment 
marks instructions for actions to be taken in their serial order 
> [indented] marks individual steps of a preceding general 
instruction 
=> [indented] marks the consequences of a preceding action 
> [in safety messages] marks instructions for actions to be taken 
® marks lists or (in instructions) alternatives 
- [indented] marks subordinated lists 
3.2 Mandatory signs 
The following mandatory signs are used in the instruction manual: 
@ General mandatory sign, additional information 
@ Read the instructions before, cross reference 
3.3. Hazard warning signs 
The following hazard warning signs are used in the instruction manual: 
General warning sign 
Danger overhead load 
Hot surface 
Rotating parts - entanglement hazard! Keep hands, loose clothing, 
and long hair away from moving parts 
Entanglement - rotating parts 
Danger machine starts automatically 
Danger electricity, electric shock 
PPP PRPP 
Harmful or irritant materials 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 153 STYLISTIC FEATURES 
Signal word, signal color 
Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station 
16 Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station/ 
Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station EC 3.4 Design of safety messages 
The safety messages given in the instruction manual are marked by a 
hazard warning sign and a signal word. 
The signal word and the associated signal color indicate the relative 
degree of the hazard: 
DANGER 
Describes an imminently hazardous situation which, if not 
avoided, will result in death or serious injury. 
Describes a potentially hazardous situation which, if not 
avoided, could result in death or serious injury 
Describes a potentially hazardous situation which, if not 
avoided, may result in minor or moderate injury 
NOTICE 
Describes a situation. which, if not avoided, may result in 
property damage. 
3.5 Definitions 
In order to facilitate reading, the notion "Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station" 
stands for both “Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station" and "Plasti-Corder® Lab- 
Station EC" in the following because the steps for mounting the conical 
twin screw extruder KDSE and the corresponding docking station* as well 
as operation of both instruments are mostly identical. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)___4__ SAFETY 
NEVER operate the instrument 
with explosives! 
Do not undertake any 
unauthorized modifications! 
No sudden and rigid 
speed changes! 4 SAFETY 
4.1 Intended use 
Intended use 
e The Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE may only be used 
in non-hazardous locations when having been completely assembled. 
© The Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE may only be used 
in combination with Brabender® drive units* type Plastograph® EC 
Plus* or Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* (year of mounting 2008 or later). 
e For operation with a Brabender® Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* (year of 
mounting 2008 or later), the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE must be mounted onto a suitable Brabender® docking station’. 
© The Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE may only be used 
within the limits stated in chapter 7 “Technical Data" and only for 
testing or processing non-explosive and non-inflammable plastic or 
plastifiable materials. 
¢ Brabender® measuring instruments are high-precision instruments 
with a highly sensitive measuring system. Always handle the 
instrument with due care in order to avoid damage to the instrument 
and to the measuring system. 
Improper application 
e The Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE must NEVER be 
used for testing of or in connection with explosives - explosion 
hazard! 
© Unauthorized modifications of the Brabender® conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE may cause danger for the personnel or property 
damage and, moreover, result in loss of guarantee and are, 
therefore, forbidden. 
e Sudden and rigid speed changes may cause damage to or even 
destruction of the machine and are, therefore, forbidden. 
4.2 Target group 
Mounting, modification, disposal 
@ Mounting, modification, and disposal of the Brabender® conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE may only be carried out by technically skilled 
personnel with the corresponding qualification. 
e@ Electric work is only allowed to be carried out by skilled electricians. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 174 SAFETY 
18 Operation, cleaning, maintenance 
e Routine operation, cleaning during routine operation, and maintenance 
of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE may be carried 
out by unskilled personnel. 
e However, the personnel in charge of operation, cleaning, and 
maintenance of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
must have been instructed by a skilled person. 
e The persons in charge of operation, cleaning, and maintenance of 
the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE must have the 
technical and computer skills enabling them to carry out the work 
described in chapters 10 "Set-up and operation", 11 "Cleaning", and 12 
"Maintenance" safely and without any risk for themselves or others. 
Repair 
e =Repair work at the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE is 
only allowed to be executed by Brabender® service technicians or by 
skilled personnel authorized for this work by Brabender® 
4.3 Carrier duties 
© The carrier of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE has 
to make sure that mounting, operation, maintenance of the instrument 
as well as repair and disposal, if applicable, are carried out 
exclusively by the personnel defined in chapter 4.2 "Target group”. 
© The carrier of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE has 
to furnish proof of training of the personnel in charge of operation, 
cleaning, and maintenance of the Brabender® conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE. 
e Prior to instrument set-up, the carrier of the Brabender® conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE has to make sure of the proper condition, 
assembly, and mounting of the instrument according to the 
instructions given in chapter 8 "Mounting". 
® The carrier of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE has 
to make sure that the operating personnel, prior to testing and 
processing any test material with the Brabender® conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE, read and understood the instruction manual of the 
Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE as well as the safety 
data sheets of the respective producer of the test material and will 
observe them. 
® The measures listed in the respective safety data sheets of the 
producer of the test material for avoiding any possible danger when 
handling the corresponding material must strictly be observed. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)4 SAFETY 
4.4 Protective devices 
4.4.1 Emergency motor stop button at the drive unit* 
4.4.1.1 Position of the emergency motor stop button 
e@ = The drive unit of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE (Plastograph® EC 
Plus* or PlastiCorder® Lab-Station*) is equipped with an emergency motor 
stop button which immediately stops the drive motor upon actuation. 
e Theemergency motor stop button is located on the top surface of the 
drive unit* above the control panel of the controller (see figs. below). 
@ When the emergency motor stop button has been activated 
{pressed down), a red indicator lamp will light on top of the 
emergency motor stop button. 
The emergency motor stop button does NOT switch off the 
heating/cooling system! 
Danger of burning even after actuation of the emergency motor 
stop button! 
> Strictly observe the safety messages concerning hot surfaces 
in chapter 4.5.2! 
The emergency motor stop button helps to avoid potentially 
hazardous situations. 
Never bridge the emergency motor stop button! 
Never lock the emergency motor stop button mechanically! 
Always keep the emergency motor stop button visible and 
easily accessible! 
Emergency motor stop 
button 
Fig. 4-1: Emergency motor stop button at the Plastograph® EC Plus* 
Emergency motor stop 
button 
Mowers Hil 
Fig. 4-2: Emergency motor stop button at the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 194 SAFETY 
20 4.4.1.2 Procedure after actuation of the emergency motor stop button 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Before restarting the system upon actuation of the emergency 
motor stop button 
> Make sure that the cause for the actuation of the emergency 
motor stop button has been eliminated. 
> Make sure that there is no risk for the personal or for the 
machine when restarting the system! 
G) Pull up the emergency motor stop button. 
(2) Press the "Start" button & at the control and display unit of the 
drive unit* in order to switch on the drive* again. 
=> The Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
immediately starts rotating with the speed set last in the 
software ("Remote” mode) or at the potentiometer of the 
drive unit* ("Local mode). 
Conical! twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)4 SAFETY 
4.4.2 Emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) 
4.4.2.1 Position of the emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) 
¢ The drive unit of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE (Plastograph® 
EC Plus* or Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*) is equipped with an 
emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch). 
The docking station* (only with Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*) is 
Position "I" Position "0" equipped with an emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) of its 
ON OFF own at the front side. 
Fig. 4-3: Emergency shut-off © Operation with a Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*: 
switch (isolator switch) The emergency shut-off switch at the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* 
immediately cuts off power supply to the drive unit’, i.e. 
- the drive motor stops 
- heating continues 
The emergency shut-off switch at the docking station* immediately 
cuts off power supply to the docking station* (temperature controller) 
and, via a safety relay, to the motor of the drive unit*, ie. 
- the drive motor stops 
- heating stops 
e Operation witha Plastograph® EC Plus*: 
The emergency shut-off switch at_the Plastograph® EC Plus* 
immediately cuts off power to the entire system, i.e. 
- the drive motor stops 
- heating stops 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE still remains hot even after 
having switched off heating/cooling by actuation of the emergency 
shut-off switch! 
Danger of burning even after actuation of the emergency shut-off 
switch! 
> Strictly observe the safety messages concerning hot surfaces 
in chapter 4.5.2! 
The emergency motor stop button helps to avoid potentially 
hazardous situations. 
Never bridge the emergency motor stop button! 
Never lock the emergency motor stop button mechanically! 
Always keep the emergency motor stop button visible and 
easily accessible! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 214 SAFETY 
4.4.2.2 Procedure after actuation of the emergency shut-off switch 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Before restarting the system upon actuation of the emergency 
shut-off switch 
> Make sure that the cause for the actuation of the emergency 
shut-off switch has been eliminated. 
> Make sure that there is no risk for the personal or for the 
machine when restarting the system! 
1) if the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE is controlled 
through the software, i.e. in "Remote" mode, switching-off of the 
machine by means of one of the two isolator switches causes a 
software alarm which needs to be acknowledged (similar to the 
fig. below). 
SSS 
A ‘Alatm: Temperature conialler o missing < 1 
= Fig. 4-4 2inlz! 
As, however, the drive unit* and the temperature controller in 
the docking station*, respectively, has been removed from the 
CAN bus by switching off, this alarm will be given every 5 s. 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Frequent switching on and off of the mains may damage the 
cutting-in electronics of the Brabender® drive unit*. 
Frequent actuation of the emergency shut-off switch leads to 
automatic high-impedance disconnection of the drive unit* from the 
mains. In this case, switching on is possible only after a rest time 
of several minutes. 
> Actuate the emergency shut-off switch in case of necessity only! 
> Do not actuate the emergency shut-off switch in intervals 
shorter than every 120 s. 
In order to register a CAN module that has been switched off with 
the CAN bus again, a new test must be started so that the CAN bus 
is scanned anew - risk of loss of data! 
> Actuate the emergency shut-off switch in case of necessity only! 
> If possible, do not actuate the emergency shut-off switch 
during a running test. 
pe 
22 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)4 SAFETY 
Acknowledge the software alarm. 
Click the button in the WinExt software* in order to stop 
the test. 
=> The acoustic alarm stops. 
Turn the emergency shut-off switch clockwise to position "I" again. 
Wait until the frequency inverter of the drive unit* has initialized. 
oe 
Press the "Start" button ©” at the contro! and display unit of the 
drive unit* in order to switch on the drive* again. Y 
BJ 
@ 
Go 
fo) 
oC) If conical twin screw extruder KDSE is operated in a CAN bus 
system and controlled through the WinExt software*: 
@ For starting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE in 
“Remote” mode through the WinExt software’, please 
also refer to chapter 10.3 "Measurement". 
> Click the button Hin the main window of the WinExt 
program* or select the menu "File" - "New". 
> If applicable, answer the question whether you want to save 
the fast test. 
=> The CAN bus is scanned anew and the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE will be recognized again. 
On the monitor*, the "Test Parameter” window opens 
with the test parameters and (on the “Equipment” tab) 
with the test equipment of the previous test with all 
CAN modules recognized. 
>» Enter the nominal temperatures of the individual control 
zones once again in the WinExt software’. 
Proceed as described in chapter 10.3 "Measurement" 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 234 SAFETY 
4.4.3 Safety device 
¢ On the right side, seen in processing direction, the processing unit of 
the conical twin screw extruder KDSE is connected via a magnetic 
proximity safety switch with the gear backstand (see fig. below). 
Magnetic proximity safety switch ~_ 
{the counterpart is mounted 
under the gear cover hood) 
Fig. 4-5 
® This safety device triggers the control unit of the drive unit* via a 
safety relay and prevents unintentional operation of the system when 
the processing unit has been drawn off. 
Danger of most serious injury by the rotating screws* when the 
processing unit of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE has been 
drawn off. 
The magnetic proximity safety switch prevents operation of the 
instrument system when the processing unit of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE has been drawn off. 
> Never bridge the magnetic proximity safety switch or put it 
out of function in any other way! 
> Operation of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE without 
the magnetic proximity safety switch being mounted 
correctly and working properly is not permitted 
e The safety switch is connected to the control unit of the drive unit* 
via the safety plug (see figs. below) coming out on the left side from 
under the gear cover hood (seen in processing direction). 
Safety plug ~~ 
connected to the socket 
"Satety Device" 
Safety plug 
connected to the 
socket 
"Safety Device" 
Fig. 4-6: Connection of the safety device Fig. 4-7: Connection of the safety device 
at the Plastograph® EC Plus* at the docking station* 
pu 
24 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)4 SAFETY 
© The drive unit can only be started if the processing unit has been 
pushed against the gear backstand all the way to the stop so that the 
contact is closed, and if the safety plug has been connected to the 
corresponding socket at the Plastograph® EC Plus* or at the docking 
station* (see Fig. 4-6 and Fig. 4-7). 
e As soon as the contact is interrupted by drawing off the processing 
unit or by disconnecting the safety plug, the drive unit* is stopped 
immediately by the inverter. 
4.4.4 Automatic instrument recognition and torque limitation 
e The conical twin screw extruder KDSE is equipped with automatic 
instrument recognition and torque limitation. For this purpose, the 8-pole 
cable coming out on the right side (seen in processing direction) from 
under the gear cover hood of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
must be connected to the socket "Torque limit key" in the left top 
corner of the control side of the drive unit Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* 
or Plastograph® EC Plus* 
Socket "Torque 2 | 
limit key” = | 
i] 
Socket "Torque 
limit key" 
Fig. 4-8: Socket “Torque limit key" at the Fig. 4-9: Socket “Torque limit key” at 
Plastograph’ EC Plus* the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* 
e = =The drive unit* now automatically recognizes the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE connected and the corresponding maximum 
admissible torque (200 Nm). 
e@ When the maximum admissible torque (200 Nm) is exceeded, the 
speed of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE is reduced 
automatically through the WinExt software* so as to keep the torque 
on the max. permissible value. 
e The WinExt software* also reduces the feed rate of any feeders* 
connected correspondingly. 
@ Please also refer to the separate instruction manual of the 
WinExt software”. 
e As soon as the torque has fallen below the max. permissible value 
again, the WinExt software” slowly increases the speed in consideration 
of the current torque up to the preset nominal value again. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 254 
26 SAFETY _ 
4 .4.5 Bursting pin 
The Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE is designed for a 
max. pressure of 700 bars at the screw tip. 
In order to avoid risks for the operating personnel and the risk of damage 
to the machine due to excessive pressure, the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE is equipped with a bursting pin in the threaded ring. 
The bursting pin is designed for a bursting pressure of 700 bars 
at 150°C. 
As soon as the pressure at the screw tip exceeds 700 bars, a 
membrane within the bursting pin will burst, allowing immediate 
pressure release. 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
When the bursting pin fails, hot product and, possibly, hot steam, 
gas, or liquid may emerge under high pressure through the 
bursting pin until the pressure at the screw tips has released! 
Danger of severe burning, danger of chemical burn, eye injuries, or 
respiratory complications, and risk of damage to or destruction of 
machine parts and/or of machines nearby by hot material spurting 
out through the bursting pin! 
> Never hoid any part of your body directly in front of the 
bursting pin or look directly into the bursting pin! 
> Only use genuine Brabender® bursting pins (ID no. 4 30 308, 
see chapter 17 "Spare parts! 
When operating the conical twin screw extruder KDSE without 
bursting pin, impermissibly high pressure may build up at the screw 
tips! 
Risk of damage to the gear bearings of the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE; the die head* may be blown off! 
Danger of most serious injuries, risk of property damage by machine 
parts being blown off and by hot melt spurting from the machine! 
> Never operate the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE without a properly mounted bursting pin! 
> Once activated, IMMEDIATELY replace the bursting pin by a 
new one! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III {counter-rotation)4 SAFETY 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
Improper mounting of the bursting pin causes risk of injury by 
spurting or dropping hot melt! 
> The bursting pin must show downwards! 
> The bursting pin must NOT show towards the control side! 
> The bursting pin must NOT show upwards! 
‘Control side 
Bursting pin (ID no. 4 30 308) - Fig. 4-10: Bursting pin 
4.4.6 Protective cover sheet over the hot processing unit 
e A protective cover sheet is mounted over the hot processing unit of 
the conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
e This protective cover sheet prevents direct touching of the hot 
heating shells of the processing unit. 
When the processing unit is not covered, the hot heating shells of 
the processing unit are bare! 
Danger of most severe burning! 
> Never operate the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE without the protective cover sheet being mounted 
properly over the processing unit! 
Protective cover hood over the 
processing unit Protective cover over the 
screw shaft coupling 
Fig. 4-11 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 274 SAFETY 
4.4.7 Protective cover over the screw shaft coupling 
A protective cover sheet is mounted over the screw shaft coupling of 
the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
This protective cover sheet over the screw shaft coupling protects 
the operating personne! from injuries at the rotating coupling 
elements. 
Rotating coupling elements are bare when the screw shaft 
coupling is open! 
Danger of injury, entanglement hazard! 
> Never operate the Brabender® conicai twin screw extruder 
KDSE without the protective cover being mounted over the 
screw shaft coupling! 
4 
Feed hopper with protective grid ——__ 
28 .4.8 Feed hopper on the feed opening 
The scope of supply of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE comprises a feed hopper for feeding the product into the 
conical twin screw extruder and preventing access to the rotating 
screws” in the processing unit. 
@ The feed hopper is usually disassembled for shipping and 
needs to be mounted and fixed properly on the feed 
opening of the machine prior to first start-up of the machine 
(see chapter 8.5 "Mounting the feed hopper’). 
The feed hopper is equipped with a protective grid inside the hopper 
so as to prevent access to the rotating screws* 
When properly mounted, the feed hopper is a fixed guard which can 
only be disassembled with tools. 
Fig. 4-12 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)4 SAFETY 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
If the feed opening is uncovered, the rotating screws* of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE are bare. 
Risk of severe injury, entanglement hazard! 
When properly mounted and fixed, the feed hopper prevents 
access to the rotating screws* within the processing unit. 
> Operation of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE without the feed hopper (or any other feeder* which 
safely prevents access onto the rotating screws*) being 
mounted and secured properly is not permitted! 
Never disassemble the protective grid in the feed hopper! 
Never insert any spatula or other rigid objects into the feed 
hopper while the screws* are rotating - risk of destruction of 
the screws* and of the entire machine system! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ifl {counter-rotation) 294 SAFETY 
4.5 Residual danger 
4.5.1 Rotating screws* - Danger of crushing 
When the feed opening of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE has not 
been closed by the feed hopper or by any other feeder*, the rotating 
screws” in the processing unit of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
are no longer secured against access. 
This may be the case, for example 
e during modification of the machine (change of feeder) 
@ = during cleaning 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
If the feed opening is uncovered, the rotating screws* of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE are bare. 
Danger of most serious injury, entanglement hazard! 
> Operation of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE is not permitted when the feed opening is open and 
the screws* are accessible! 
Operation of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE is only permitted when the feed opening has been 
closed properly by the feed hopper or by any other feeder* 
which safely prevents access onto the rotating screws* and 
when access onto the rotating screws* is excluded! 
30 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)4 SAFETY 
4.5.2 Hot surfaces - Danger of burning 
Due to the high processing temperatures required for many products to 
be tested with the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE, the 
entire machine system including further additional and downstream 
equipment* may be very hot during operation. 
During start-up, operation, and during cleaning and maintenance 
work, the surfaces of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE and of ail parts mounted thereto, including cooling air and 
cooling water ducts, may reach temperatures of up to approx. 
400°c. 
Even after switching off of the system, these surfaces may still be 
very hot for a long time. 
Risk of severe burning! 
> Never operate the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE without the protective cover sheet being mounted 
properly over the processing unit! 
Always take care to keep a sufficient distance of unprotected 
parts of your body to hot machine parts! 
Always wear suitable protective gloves when working at the 
machine! 
Never splash water onto the hot surfaces of the machine 
system! 
Always take care to keep a sufficient distance of electric 
cables to hot machine parts. 
Place clear warning signs beside any hot parts in order to 
avoid unintentional touching by third persons. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 314 SAFETY 
32 4.5.3 Danger by emerging harmful or irritant vapor, gas, or liquid 
Harmful or irritant vapor, gas, or liquids! 
Danger of chemical burn, danger of eye injuries or respiratory 
complications! 
> Always wear suitable protective gloves and safety goggles 
when working near to feed, discharge, or vent openings! 
> Never look directly into feed, discharge, or vent openings 
without suitable eye protection! 
Always keep a sufficient distance of the respiratory organs 
to any feed, discharge, or vent openings. 
The carrier of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE has 
to make sure that the maintenance intervals given in chapter 12 
“Maintenance” are strictly observed for all tubes and hoses as well 
as for the corresponding connections and screw joints. 
When exchanging defective tubes or hoses, the carrier of the 
Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE has to make sure that 
only suitable tubes or hoses are applied which are in a perfect and 
operationally safe condition and are certified to be suited for the 
pressures to be expected. 
The carrier of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE has 
to make sure that all openings provided for mounting additional 
equipment at the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE are 
closed - either by the corresponding additional equipment or by a 
suitable closing plug. 
The carrier of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE has 
to make sure that there are suitable fume hoods mounted above the 
feed and discharge openings of the Brabender® conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE for exhausting any harmful dust, gas, or vapor. 
Only skilled personnel that has been informed about the possible 
dangers before is allowed to work on feed, discharge, and vent 
openings. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)i 
4 SAFETY 
4.5.4 Danger by electricity 
@ Current for the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE is 
supplied via the drive unit Plastograph® EC Plus* and via the 
docking station”, respectively. 
e Do not expose the mains cable and the mains plug to humidity! 
@ Connect the drive unit* and the docking station’, if any, to a properly 
installed mains socket with a protective earth contact (PE) only! 
e Before connecting the drive unit* and the docking station’, if any, to 
the mains, make sure that the line voltage and frequency match the 
data given on the name plate of the docking station”! 
@ See also the separate instruction manual of the 
corresponding Brabender® drive unit* and docking station*, 
if any! 
e Always pull the mains cable at the plug, never pull it at the cable 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 7 334 SAFETY 
34 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark II (counter-rotation)5 TRANSPORT AND STORAGE 
5 TRANSPORT AND STORAGE 
5.1 Packing 
Packing of the instrument, accessories, and additional equipment 
® Brabender® instruments are packed properly and professionally into 
wooden crates. 
Small parts, accessories, and e Small parts and accessories are packed separately into cardboard 
additional equipment may be boxes or bags contained in the crates. 
packed in separate boxes or e Additional equipment is packed either in the same crate as the 
instrument or in a separate crate, depending on the scope of the 
order. crates 
Shipping labels at the crate 
e On the outside of the crate(s), there are the following labels which 
must be observed by ail means: 
tt — This side up! 
Y Fragile, handle with care! 
0) Keep dry! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 355 TRANSPORT AND STORAGE 
36 5.2 Unpacking 
a) 
@ 
CC Upon arrival of the Brabender® instrument, the carrier of the 
Brabender® instrument must inspect the shipping crate for any 
outside damage. 
If any damage is detected, notify the transport carrier immediately. 
@ Please also refer to chapter 5.4 “Checking for and 
notification of damage". 
Remove the cover of the crate(s). 
NOTICE 
Parts of the instrument may be damaged! 
> When removing the lateral walls of the crate, take 
care of braces and supports within the crate as well as 
of bolt connections at the bottom of the crate, etc.! 
Carefully remove the lateral walls of the crate. 
Unpack the Brabender® instrument with due care. Take particular 
care for small parts or accessories within the packing material. 
@ Leave cover hoods and protective films at the Brabender® 
instrument until mounting and commissioning, respectively. 
Search the whole packing material very carefully. 
@ Depending on the shipping way and on circumstances 
which are beyond Brabender*’s influence, parts of the 
Brabender® instrument may have loosened during 
transport despite proper and professional packing and 
may be hidden within the packing material. 
Dispose the packing material in an ecologically friendly way in 
compliance with the local regulations concerning disposal only 
after the carrier of the Brabender® instrument has found the 
scope of supply to be complete. 
@ For checking the scope of supply, please refer to chapter 
5.3 "Checking the scope of supply" 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)5 TRANSPORT AND STORAGE 
5.3 Checking the scope of supply 
Y The carrier of the Brabender® instrument must compare the 
scope of supply with the shipping documents near in time to 
arrival of the Brabender® instrument at the place of destination. 
(2) lf there is any discrepancy, notify Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG 
or in North America, C.W. Brabender® Instruments, Inc. 
immediately in writing. 
G Any claims of the carrier of the Brabender® instrument 
for subsequent supply free of charge shall be excluded 
if the carrier of the Brabender® instrument neglects to 
state completeness of the scope of supply or states 
incompleteness late. 
5.4 Checking for and notification of damage 
y Upon arrival of the Brabender® instrument, inspect the shipping 
crate(s) for outside damage. 
(23 Immediately upon unpacking and checking of the scope of supply, 
check the Brabender® instrument as such for any signs of damage. 
In case of damage, In case of damage, notify the transport carrier immediately. 
notify immediately: 
e the transport carrier Immediately send a copy of the notification of shipment damage, 
@ Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG stating also place and time of damage detection to Brabender® 
or in North America GmbH & Co.KG or in North America, C.W. Brabender® 
CW. Brabender® Instruments, inc. Instruments, Inc. 
& If, in the order, the risks of carriage were agreed to be 
taken by the buyer or by the receiver, the buyer or the 
receiver has to observe the regulations of the 
insurance policy. 
oF If necessary, the average adjuster appointed by the 
opposing partner of the rightful claimant must be given 
the opportunity to inspect the shipment/the 
Brabender® instrument. 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage by a defective instrument! 
> Never mount or use a defective instrument! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark ill (counter-rotation) 37” 5 TRANSPORT AND STORAGE 
5.5 Transport 
DANGER 
Danger of injury or death, risk of property damage by overhead load 
and/or by the use of lifting devices with insufficient carrying capacity! 
> Before lifting the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE, 
make sure for sufficient carrying capacity of the lifting device! 
When moving the instrument with an overhead crane by means of 
ropes, chains, or belts: 
> 
> 
> 
> Do not stand underneath suspended loads! 
Only use ropes, chains, or belts with sufficient carrying capacity! 
Only use ropes, chains, or belts in safe operating condition! 
Fix the ropes, chains, or belts as near as possible to the 
gravity center of the instrument! 
When moving the instrument with a fork lift truck: 
> 
> 
Take care for sensitive paris! 
Avoid hard touchdowns! 
38 Put on or mount the lifting device as near as possible to the 
gravity center of the instrument! 
Do not stand underneath suspended loads! 
Parts of the instrument may be damaged! 
> Fix lifting devices, ropes, chains, or belts so that no 
sensitive parts of the instrument such as switches, 
levers, etc. are damaged! 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE can be moved on the 
mobile frame* or on the docking station* to the intended 
mounting place. 
Move the unpacked instrument very carefully to the intended 
mounting place. 
NOTICE 
The instrument or parts of it may be damaged by a hard 
touchdown! 
> Put down the instrument with utmost care! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III {counter-rotation)5 TRANSPORT AND STORAGE 
5.6 Storage 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Residual product, in particular residues of aggressive products 
like e.g. ceramics, distilled water, etc. may cause wear such as 
abrasion and/or corrosion up to pitting within very short time. 
Likewise, storage in humid or aggressive environment may cause 
corrosion and, in extreme cases, pitting corrosion. 
> Thoroughly clean and dry all machine parts before storage, in 
particular those with product contact. 
Particular care must be taken for clean and dry edges, 
angles, and grooves. 
Prior to storage, disassemble ail parts with product contact 
such as screws" etc. and thoroughly clean and dry them. 
Apply a thin (!} film of machine oil (multi-purpose oil) on all 
parts with product contact. 
Individual parts must be packed individually in protective nets. 
Store the Brabender® instrument and all parts thereof in dry 
rooms only. 
Put the Brabender® instrument on a support which is at least 
200 mm high in order to protect the instrument from ground 
humidity. 
> Arrange storage areas so that moisture can escape and 
periodical inspections are possible. 
Extreme temperature variations or long exposure to direct sun may 
cause damage to the instrument or machine. 
> Do not expose the Brabender® instrument or parts thereof to 
extreme temperature variations or direct sun. 
@ For details concerning the admissible limit values of ambient 
temperature and humidity, please refer to chapter 7 "Technical 
data". 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 39 
y5 TRANSPORT AND STORAGE 
40 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)6 COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
6 COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
6.1 General description 
¢ The Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE is a measuring 
head heated electrically and driven by a Brabender® Plastograph® 
EC Plus* or by a Brabender® Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*. 
¢ For operation with the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*, the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE must be mounted and connected to the 
corresponding Brabender® docking station* and the docking station* 
must be locked at the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*. 
For operation with the Plastograph® EC Plus*, the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE must be mounted on the mobile frame*. 
@ If the docking station* or the mobile frame* is included in 
the scope of supply, the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
has, usually, been mounted in factory on the docking 
station* or mobile frame*. 
® The scope of supply of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE comprises: 
- a feed hopper 
- asafety bursting pin 700 bars/150°C 
- 4 control thermocouples for temperature control of the zones of 
the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
¢ The following components need to be ordered separately: 
- screws* 
- die head* 
- drive unit* 
- docking station* (for operation with a Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*) 
or 
mobile frame* (for operation with a Plastograph® EC Plus*) 
- computer* and peripheral units* (the configuration software 
CANfig* and the measuring and evaluation software WinExt* for 
all current Windows® versions are included in the scope of supply 
of the drive unit*) 
- further software programs” (e.g. WinExt data correlation program) 
- further supplementary modules, e.g. feeders*, conveyor belt*, 
pelletizer* 
Definition of "discharge side” G The side of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
with the threaded ring for connecting a die head" is referred to 
as "discharge side” in the following. 
Definition of "clutch side" The side opposite to the discharge side with the clutch for 
connection to the drive unit* is referred to as “clutch side" in 
the following. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 416 
42 instrument name 
ID NO. ——®srodei [934607 Admissible mains frequency 
Admissible voltage 
Electric drawing no. COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
6.2 Product labels 
6.2.1 Name plate 
The name plate of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
contains the following information: 
“Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG Germany 
‘B Phone:-49-203-7788-0 B Fax:-49-203-7788-100 
fal [ROSE Mok ey Serra! number 1924701 Y  Yom[2010} aoe = 
av _204re_] He San aS 71, —ih 2 Bove) kw <r Rated current Kulturstr. 54-55 
Product D-47055 Duisburg 
SIN 
——-@Diagram [834607000-00] [| 
Fig. 6-1: Name plate (example) 
6.2.2 Further product labels 
checked 
v 
brabende Tested to verify elecincal safety 
accorded ta 
EN 60204-1:2006/A1:2009 
by 
Date 
A 
caution hot 
Lal Signification: 
Signification: 
Position: 
Siqgnification: 
Position: 
Signification: 
Signification: Manufacturer's name 
and address 
} 
Instrument was checked in the 
Brabender® workshop 
Instrument was checked for electrical 
safety in the Brabender® workshop 
[etched] 
On the top surface of the protective 
cover sheet over the processing unit 
of the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE 
Risk of injury at the rotating screws* 
[etched] 
On the top surface of the protective 
cover sheet over the processing unit 
of the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE 
Danger of burning at the hot surfaces 
of the Brabender® conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE 
Read instruction manual before 
starting the Brabender® instrument! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)Protective cover sheet over the 
processing unit 6 COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
6.3 Main components 
6.3.1 General description, measuring principle 
Fold-down rails 2a The Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE is a measuring 
head with electric heating connected via a spiral tooth gear clutch to 
and driven by a Brabender® Plastograph® EC Plus* or a Brabender® 
Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*. 
The Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE consists of the 
following main components: 
- processing unit with barrel, feed hopper, screws”, heating shells, 
and threaded ring for connecting various die heads* 
- gear unit with clutch 
- mobile frame* or docking station* (depending on the drive unit*) 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE is used in laboratories and 
simulation for testing the extrusion behavior of products which are 
processed mainly in twin screw extruders in production as well. The 
KDSE stands out for special process technical advantages: 
- good intake behavior in particular with voluminous bulk goods 
due to the enlarged channel volume in the feed zone 
- quick compression in the feed zone through decreasing channel 
volume 
- quick pressure build-up and rapid fusion with high circumferential 
speeds within this functional zone 
- short processing length 
- transmission of high torques due to good space conditions in the 
bearing area 
The product is molten within the hot processing unit, homogenized, 
and conveyed by the screws* to the dies* on the discharge side. 
During this process, various parameters can be measured and 
recorded for subsequent evaluation. 
The measuring data are displayed during the running test on the 
monitor* of the computer* and can be stored and printed on a 
connected printer”. 
Feed hopper 
Gear unit and clutch (under 
the gear cover hood) 
Processing unit 
Mobile and pivotable 
Support 
Docking station* 
Fig. 6-2 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) - 436 COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
6.3.2 Processing unit 
© ~The barrel is made of highly wear resistant steel. The bore is nitrided. 
@ The processing unit is heated by three electric heater bands. The 
temperature of the individual heating zones is recorded by control 
thermocouples and controlled and displayed by electronic 
temperature controllers in the Plastograph® EC Plus* or in the docking 
station*. 
Cooling is done with compressed air controlled and supplied by 
cooling air solenoid valves in the Plastograph® EC Plus* or in the 
docking station’. 
The feed zone of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE is cooled with 
water. 
e The cooling air flanges are located on the right side of the conical 
twin screw extruder KDSE, seen in processing direction. 
Measuring bores for 
pressure transducers* 
or melt temperature 
thermocouples* Heater band cables 
Bayonet nipple for 
Se control thermocouple 
“~ 
Cooling air flanges for 
control zones Fig. 6-3 
© The cooling water flanges for feed zone cooling are located at the left 
bottom of the feed zone, seen in processing direction. 
Gear cooling flanges 
(air/water) 
Cooling water flanges 
for feed zone 
e The processing unit has got a top vent opening which is closed with 
a vent plug in the standard version for operation without venting (see 
Fig. 6-3). 
44 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation}6 COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
@ On the discharge side, there is an adapter with a threaded ring for 
connecting various die heads*. The die adapter is a separate heating 
zone with a heater band (400 W) of its own. 
In the standard version, the die adapter has got two threaded bores 
%" * 20 UNF opposite each other for taking the bursting pin (bottom 
bore) and a pressure transducer* or melt temperature thermocouple* 
{top bore) and another bayonet nipple for taking the control 
thermocouple. 
Threaded bore 
¥"* 20 UNF for 
pressure transducer* 
or melt temperature 
thermocouple* Heater band 
Bayonet nipple for ——~~*® 
control thermocouple 
Bursting pin - Fig. 6-5 
e The processing unit is mounted on a mobile and pivotable support 
which can be moved along the rails of the mobile frame or of the 
docking station*. For cleaning purposes, the processing unit can be 
disassembled from the gear unit* and turned on the support (see fig. 
below). 
Fig. 6-6 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 456 COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
Feed hopper with protective grid 
46 6.3.3 Screws* 
The screws for the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
are made of highly wear resistant steel. The screw flights are 
hardened. 
The screws* counter-rotate (towards each other). 
Q Various screws* are available for the Brabender® conical 
twin screw extruder KDSE. The screws* must be ordered 
separately. 
6.3.4 Feed hopper 
The feed hopper, which is included in the scope of supply of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE, serves for feeding the product 
into the feed zone of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE and, at 
the same time, for preventing access to the rotating screws* in the 
processing unit. 
@ The feed hopper is usually disassembled for shipping and 
needs to be mounted and fixed properly on the feed 
opening of the machine prior to first start-up of the machine 
(see chapter 8.5 "Mounting the feed hopper"). 
The feed hopper is equipped with a fixed protective grid in order to 
prevent access to the rotating screws*. 
The feed hopper* has a capacity of approx. 1.5 I. 
Alternatively, other feeders* are available, e.g. a single-screw 
feeder* or a dosing chute*. 
Fig. 6-7 
Conicat twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)6 COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
6.4 Connections 
6.4.1 Electric connections of the safety devices 
6.4.1.1 Connection of the proximity safety switch 
The 12-pole cable of the proximity safety switch of the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE, coming out on the left side (seen in processing direction) 
from under the gear cover hood, must be connected to the socket "Safety 
Device" on the control side of the Plastograph® EC Plus* or on top of the 
docking station* (see figs. below). 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE can only be operated if 
the cable of the proximity safety switch is connected properly to 
the corresponding socket. 
Safety plug ~ i 7 
in the socket 
"Safety Device” 
Safety plug 
in the socket 
"Safety Device” 
Fig. 6-8: Connection of the proximity safety Fig. 6-9: Connection of the proximity safety switch 
switch at the Plastograph” EC Plus* at the docking station* 
6.4.1.2 Connection of the automatic instrument recognition and 
torque limitation 
e@ The 8-pole cable of the automatic instrument recognition and torque 
limitation of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, coming out on the 
right side (seen in processing direction) from under the gear cover 
hood, must be connected to the socket "Torque limit key" on the left 
top of the control side of the drive unit* (Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* 
or Plastograph® EC Plus*. 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE can only be 
operated if the cable of the automatic instrument 
recognition and torque limitation is connected properly to 
the corresponding socket. 
rt = Socket "Torque limit key” 
ee at the Plastograph® EC Plus* 
Fig. 6-10 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 476 COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
6.4.2 Heating/cooling connections 
6.4.2.1 Bayonet nipples for control thermocouples 
e On the underside of the processing unit, there are the bayonet 
nipples for the control thermocouples of the three heating/cooling 
zones of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE (see fig. below). The 
control thermocouples (accessory) need to be mounted into the 
bayonet nipples and connected to the corresponding sockets at the 
terminal board of the Plastograph® EC Plus* or docking station* 
Bayonet nipples 
for control thermocouples Fig. 6-11 
@ For connection of the control thermocouples and heater bands, 
please refer to chapter 8.10.2 and to the corresponding 
chapters in the separate instruction manual of the 
Plastograph® EC Plus* or of the docking station’. 
e Any further heating zones (e.g. a measuring ring*, a die head*) also 
have to be connected to the corresponding sockets at the terminal 
board of the Plastograph® EC Plus* or docking station* 
6.4.2.2 Heater band cables 
@ On the right side of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE (seen in 
processing direction), there are the fixed heater band cables of the 
three heating zones which need to be connected with the 
corresponding sockets at the terminal board of the Plastograph® EC 
Plus* or docking station*. 
Heater band cables 
48 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ili (counter-rotation)6 COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
6.4.2.3 Cooling air connections at the control zones 
e The cooling air flanges for the three heating/cooling zones of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE are located on the right side of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE, seen in processing direction. 
Cooling air flanges 
for the heating/cooling zones = 
, 
Cooling air flanges 
zone no. 2 and 3 
Fig. 6-13 
In case of using water for cooling the heating/cooling zones of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE, steam may develop under high 
pressure due to the high temperatures within the barrel! 
The cooling pipes may be damaged or may burst! 
Danger of severe injuries, risk of property damage by hot steam 
suddenly emerging! 
> Only _connect_air to the control zones of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE! 
> NEVER use water as a cooling agent for the control zones of 
the conical twin screw extruder KDSE! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 496 COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
§.4.2.4 Gear cooling connections 
@ The gear cooling flanges are located on the left side of the gear 
housing of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, seen in processing 
direction. 
@ For gear cooling, water or air can be connected to the gear 
cooling flanges. 
The gear unit should be cooled only in case of necessity, i.e. 
in case of processing temperatures of about 200°C or more. 
e Water cooling: 
Connect cooling water (0.2 - 0.5 l/min & approx. 12 - 30 I/h) from the 
water or cooling water network as follows in order to avoid air 
bubbies in the cooling pipes: 
Supply: bottom flange 
Discharge: top flange 
e = =6Air cooling: 
For gear cooling with air, no special flow direction is required. 
Connect cooling air from the compressed air network (oil-free air, 
approx. 0.5 - 1.5 bars). 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Extremely low cooling water or cooling air temperature may cause 
condensate formation in the gear unit and in the feed zone. 
In case of extremely low gear temperatures, cold transmission may 
cool down the screws* in the feed zone so that the time for reaching 
stationary conditions may be rather long. 
The gear oil viscosity may increase in case of very low 
temperatures. This may cause problems with gear lubrication and, 
in extreme cases, cause damage to the bearings in the gear unit. 
> Only use cooling water or cooling air from the normal 
water/cooling water or compressed air net for gear cooling! 
> Do not use a cold air generator or similar apparatus! 
Gear cooling flanges 
50 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)6 COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
6.4.2.5 Cooling water flanges at the feed zone 
e The cooling water flanges for feed zone cooling are located on the 
left side, seen in processing direction, at the bottom of the feed zone 
(see fig. below). 
e Connect cooling water (0.2 - 0.5 l/min = approx. 12 - 30 I/h) from the 
water or cooling water network as follows in order to avoid air 
bubbles in the cooling pipes: 
Supply: bottom flange 
Discharge: top flange 
Cooling water flanges 
for feed zone cooling 
Discharge 
Supply 
6.4.3. Mains connection 
Power to the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE is supplied 
via the drive unit Plastograph® EC Plus* and via the docking station’, 
respectively. 
Before connecting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE to the 
drive unit*, make sure that the drive unit* and the docking 
station*, if applicable, have been connected properly to the 
mains as described in the respective separate instruction 
manuals. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 516 COMPONENTS AND FUNCTIONAL FEATURES 
52 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)Processing unit 7 TECHNICAL DATA 
7 TECHNICAL DATA 
Barrel bores: 2, each with 
@ 32mm (gear) /@ 20 mm (discharge) 
Barrel length: 358 mm 
Material: nitrided steel, hardened 
Feed opening: 
Cooling media: 
@ Barrel control zones round, @ 35 mm 
air (never use water!) 
e Feed zone water 
© Gear unit (if required) water or air 
Cooling water flanges: @11.5mm 
Cooling air flanges: O11.5mm : 
Electric heating/cooling zones: 3 
Heating power: 
© Zone no. 1 
e Zone no. 2 
e Zone no. 3 
e Zone no. 4 (threaded ring) 1900 W, air cooling 
1000 W, air cooling 
1200 W, air cooling 
400 W 
Rated voltage of zones: 240 V (4 10 %), 50/60 Hz 
Operating pressure: 
Operating temperature: 700 bars max. 
400°C max. (short-time 450°C) 
Throughput: up to approx. 5 kg/h, depending on 
the product 
Screws* Number: 2 _ 
Material: highly wear resistant special steel, 
chrome plated, flights hardened 
‘Diameter: 31.1 mm (gear) 119.6 mm (discharge) _ 
Max. screw speed: 150 rpm 
Drive power: 7 kW at max. screw speed 
Max. screw torque: 300 Nm per screw shaft 
Gear unit Nominal torque: 200 Nm a 
Transmission: 1:1 
Drive speed: I 150 rpm max. 
Oil content approx. 0.3 | (= half full) 
“Type of oil ISO VG 220 
Current supply Mains connection: 1* 230 V, 50/60 Hz+N+PE, 32A 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark lil (counter-rotation) (supply from drive unit* or docking 
station*) 
537 TECHNICAL DATA 
Dimensions and weight Dimensions (L * H * W) 
* KDSE with feed hopper on | approx. 1100 mm * 1600 mm * 670 mm 
mobile frame”: 
® KDSE with feed hopper on | approx. 1100 mm * 1600 mm* 600 mm 
docking station”: 
Weight 
e KDSE with mobile frame": approx. 75 kg 
e KDSE with docking station*: | approx. 170 kg 
Environmental conditions |e Storage: 
Temperature ~- 25°C -+ 55°C 
Relative humidity 5-95 % 
© Operation: 
Temperature + 5°C-+ 45°C 
Relative humidity §-95% 
7.1 Noise measurement 
Noise measurement was made under normal operating conditions within 
the speed range of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE at 
a distance of approximately 1m and at a height of approximately 1.6 m. 
The equivalent continuous sound pressure level measured is 
Leg < 70 dB(A) 
54 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 8 MOUNTING 
8 MOUNTING 
8.1 Safety notes concerning mounting 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Risk of damage to or destruction of the screws* when suddenly 
starting during mounting when the drive unit* is on! 
Risk of burning and risk of damage to the heaters by uncontrolled 
heating of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE when it is alive 
during mounting. 
> Always pull the mains plug of the drive unit* and of the 
docking station* before mounting the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE to the drive unit*! 
Never mount the conical twin screw extruder KDSE to a live 
drive unit* or to a tive docking station"! 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
Improper mounting of the instrument involves the danger of injury 
for the personnel and the risk of damage to the instrument. 
> All mounting work at the Brabender® conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE may only be carried out with due care by 
technically skilled personnel! 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage due to falling load and/or 
due to wrong posture when moving the instrument with one or 
several persons. 
> Always wear protective shoes with protecting caps when 
moving the conical twin screw extruder KDSE! 
> Take care for a straight and upright posture when lifting and 
carrying the conical twin screw extruder KDSE! 
Lift the instrument with two persons (one on every side) onto 
a suitable carriage, onto the mobile frame*, or onto the docking 
station’ in order to move it to the desired place of mounting. 
Do not carry the conical twin screw extruder KDSE over long 
distances! 
@ For a definition of the target group for mounting and the required 
skills, please refer to chapter 4.2. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 558 MOUNTING 
8.2 Requirements to the place of mounting 
YQ 
@ 
i) 
CQ oC 
Supply data (®} 
56 Mount the Brabender® instrument in a closed room where it is 
protected from weather factors. 
Do not mount the Brabender® instrument in the vicinity of heat 
sources (heating, presses, etc.). 
The intended base for mounting the instrument must be 
@ even and plane 
e clean 
e — strong enough to carry the instrument 
Make sure that the Brabender® instrument is protected against 
vibration (take care that the instrument is stable!). 
The connection and adaptation points for power supply to the 
instrument must be as near as possible to the mounting piace of 
the instrument. 
Gi The Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE is 
connected as a measuring head to a Brabender® 
Plastograph® EC Plus” or Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station’. 
The heating energy required is provided by the 
temperature control unit of the drive unit Plastograph® 
EC Plus’ or by the docking station*. 
Requirements: 
e Electric energy: 230 V + PE, 50/60 Hz, 32A 
no separate mains connection of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
required, power supply via the 
Plastograph® EC Plus* or via the 
docking station” 
e Compressed air: 0.5 - 1.5 bars, max. 2 bars, oil-free 
for cooling the barrel zones 
(connection to central compressed 
air flange at the Plastograph® EC Plus 
or docking station") 
e Water: tap water, 0.5 Vmin 
for feed zone cooling * 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
8.3. Mechanical mounting of the KDSE to the Plastograph® 
EC Ptus* 
8.3.1 Mounting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE on the mobile 
frame* 
a3 If the mobile frame* is included in the scope of supply, the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE usually has been mounted on 
the mobile frame” in factory. 
If not, please observe the warnings and instructions below! 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
For mounting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE on the mobile 
frame*, several parts of the mobile frame* and of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE must be disassembled which, later on, need 
to be reassembled and adjusted precisely to each other in order to 
ensure proper and safe function of all parts. 
> Mounting of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE on the 
mobile frame* should, therefore, be done by a Brabender® 
service technician only. 
If the rails are not locked properly, they may suddenly fold down 
so that the conical twin screw extruder KDSE mounted thereupon 
can slide out of the rails and fall down. 
If the conical twin screw extruder KDSE has not been mounted 
properly, it may tilt up and/or slide out of the rails and fall down. 
Risk of serious injuries by the falling conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE, risk of damage to or destruction of the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE! 
> Prior to mounting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE to 
the Plastograph® EC Plus*, make sure by all means that the 
two fold-down parts of the rails are horizontal and are 
properly locked in this position! 
Make sure that the mobile and pivotable support of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE runs safely within the 
channels of the rails and cannot tilt up. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Il {counter-rotation) 578 MOUNTING 
(1) Draw the locking bolts of the two front parts of the rails and fold 
down the two front parts of the rails. 
Unscrew the two M8 
fillister head screws 
Locking bolt 
Disassemble this plate 
Fold-down front part of the rail 
Fig. 8-1 
2) Unscrew the two M68 fillister head screws at the plates of the two 
fold-down parts of the rails and take off the plates (see fig. 
above). 
) Remove the two caps from the rear cross rail of the mobile and 
pivotable support of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
Saar ene seamen 
Cap 
Fig. 8-2 
(4) Adjust the sliding blocks on both sides within the mobile and 
pivotable support of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE so 
that the guide screws have got sufficient clearance for moving 
and are approximately centered to the wheel of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE (see following fig., view from below). 
ay The sliding blocks can be re-ordered under the ID no. 
2 55 047.001. 
Guide screw in the sliding block 
Fig. 8-3 
58 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE is very heavy and may 
overturn! 
Danger of severe injury, danger of damage to the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE when the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
overturns or falls down. 
> Always hold and secure the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE with two persons as long as it has not yet been fixed 
tightly on the mobile frame*! 
(5) Carefully insert the mobile and pivotable support of the conical 
twin screw extruder KDSE from the die discharge side into the 
rails of the mobile frame* so that the guide screws of the sliding 
blocks fit into the grooves of the rails (see fig. below). 
@ {ff the guide screws drag within the groove, slightly 
grind off the heads of the guide screws. 
Guide screw in the groove 
of the rail 
Fig. 8-4 
9g Remount the caps onto the cross rails of the mobile and 
pivotable support. 
Remount the two plates to the front parts of the rails and fix 
them with the two M&8 fillister head screws. ian & 
Fold up the two front parts of the rails until the locking bolts on 
both sides engage. 
Make sure that the fold-down parts of the rails are properly 
locked. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark II! (counter-rotation) 598 MOUNTING 
8.3.2 Mounting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE to the 
Plastograph® EC Plus* 
a Make sure that the isolator switch of the Plastograph® EC Plus* 
is in position "0". 
Make sure that the mounting surface of the Plastograph® EC Plus* 
is clean and free from any tools or residues. 
EC Plus*, remove the cover hood. 3 If the cover hood is still on the motor shaft of the Plastograph® 
Open the knurled screws on the two stud bolts on the mounting 
surface of the Plastograph® EC Plus” by turning them counter- 
clockwise until they are in line with the top surface of the stud bolts. 
if the coupling sleeve* (accessory of the Plastograph® EC Plus*) 
has not yet been mounted onto the clutch half of the Plastograph® 
EC Plus*, push it onto the clutch half of the Plastograph® Ec 
Plus* 
Coupling sleeve 
Fig. 8-5 
(j Push the conical twin screw extruder KDSE on the mobile 
frame* towards the Plastograph® EC Plus* so that the base 
plate of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE sits down on the 
mounting surface of the Plastograph® EC Plus* and the clutch 
halves of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE and of the 
Plastograph® EC Plus* are axially in line. 
60 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
If required, the height of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
can be adjusted by a few millimeters by means of the forcing 
screws at the gear unit (see fig. below). 
Forcing screw 
Fixing screw — 
Fig. 8-6 
> Loosen the fixing screws on both sides of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE. 
Turn in or out the forcing screws on both sides as required. vVwv Retighten the two fixing screws. Vv Put a bubble level on the top of the processing unit of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE in order to check whether 
the processing unit is exactly horizontal. 
> If necessary, adjust the height adjusting screw under the 
processing unit (see fig. below) until the processing unit 
stands exactly horizontally. 
G& f Height adjusting te Fig. 8-7 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 618 MOUNTING 
Push the conical twin screw extruder KDSE towards the 
Plastograph® EC Plus* all the way to the stop so that the stud 
bolts on the mounting surface of the Plastograph® EC Plus’ fit into 
the recesses of the base plate of the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE (see fig. below). 
If necessary, slightly turn the clutch of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE by hand until it fits into the 
coupling sleeve’. 
@ If the conical twin screw extruder KDSE cannot be 
approached far enough towards the Plastograph® EC 
Plus* because it has been mounted too far towards 
the front side on the mobile frame”: 
> Loosen the fixing screws on both sides of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE (see fig. below). 
> Approach the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
to the Plastograph® EC Pius* all the way to the 
stop. 
> Retighten the fixing screws on both sides of the 
Die conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
Fixing screw Stud bolt 
with knuried screw 
Fig. 8-8 
Tighten the knurled screws on the stud bolts by hand. 
Firmly tighten the knurled screws on the stud bolts using the 
cam wrench from the accessory kit. 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE is very heavy and may 
overturn! 
Danger of injury, danger of damage to the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE when the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
overturns or falls down. 
> Before releasing the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, 
carefully check whether it is fixed securely at the drive unit* 
and cannot tip over! 
62 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
8.4 Mechanical mounting of the KDSE to the Plasti-Corder® 
Lab-Station 
8.4.1. Mounting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE onto the docking 
station* 
a If the docking station* is included in the scope of supply, the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE usually has been mounted on 
the docking station* in factory. 
If not, please observe the warnings and instructions below! 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
For mounting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE on the 
docking station’, several parts of the docking station* and of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE must be disassembled which, 
later on, need to be reassembled and adjusted precisely to each 
other in order to ensure proper and safe function of all parts. 
> Mounting of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE on the 
docking station* should, therefore, be done by a Brabender® 
service technician only. 
Hf the rails are not locked properly, they may suddenly fold down 
so that the conical twin screw extruder KDSE mounted thereupon 
can slide out of the rails and fall down. 
If the conical twin screw extruder KDSE has not been mounted 
properly, it may tilt up and/or slide out of the rails and fall down. 
Risk of serious injuries by the falling conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE, risk of damage to or destruction of the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE! 
> Prior to mounting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, 
make sure by all means that the two fold-down parts of the 
rails are horizontal and are properly locked in this position! 
Make sure that the mobile and pivotable support of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE runs safely within the 
channels of the rails and cannot tilt up. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 638 MOUNTING 
64 Stud bolts with knurled nuts 
in the rear threaded bores 
Locking bolt 
Disassemble this plate 
GB 
@e 
@e For mounting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, the two 
stud bolts on the mounting surface of the docking station* must 
be screwed into the threaded bores on the rear side. 
If the two stud bolts with the knurled nuts are still screwed into 
the two threaded bores looking towards the front side (the side 
with the isolator switch), unscrew the stud bolts and screw them 
into the rear bores (see fig. below). 
Mounting surface 
Fig. 8-9 
Make sure that the isolator switch on the front side of the 
Brabender® docking station‘ is in position "0". 
-- tsolator switch 
Fig. 8-10 
If the docking station* has already been mounted and connected 
to the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*, make sure that the isolator 
switch of the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station’ is in position "0" as well. 
Make sure that the mounting surface of the docking station” is 
clean and free from any tools or residues. 
Open the knurled nuts on the two stud bolts on the mounting 
surface of the docking station* by turning them counter-clockwise 
until they are in line with the top surface of the stud bolts. 
Draw the locking bolts of the two front parts of the rails and fold 
down the two front parts of the rails. 
Fold-down front part of the rail 
Fig. 8-11 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
Unscrew the two M6 fillister head screws at the plates of the two 
fold-down parts of the rails and take off the plates (see fig. 
above). 
Remove the two caps from the rear cross rail of the mobile and 
pivotable support of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
Cap 
Fig. 8-12 
(2) Adjust the sliding blocks on both sides within the mobile and 
pivotabie support of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE so 
that the guide screws have got sufficient clearance for moving 
and are approximately centered to the wheel of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE (see fig. below, view from below). 
@ The sliding blocks can be re-ordered under the ID no. 
2 55 047.001. 
Guide screw in the sliding block 
Fig. 8-13 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE is very heavy and may 
overturn! 
Danger of severe injury, danger of damage to the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE when the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
overturns or falls down. 
> Always hold and secure the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE with two persons as long as it has not yet been fixed 
tightly to the docking station*! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 658 MOUNTING 
Carefully insert the mobile and pivotable support of the conical 
twin screw extruder KDSE from the die discharge side into the 
rails of the docking station* so that the guide screws of the 
sliding blocks fit into the grooves of the rails (see fig. below). 
@ If the guide screws drag within the groove, slightly 
grind off the heads of the guide screws. 
Guide screw in the groove 
of the rail 
Fig. 8-14 e Remount the caps onto the cross rails of the mobile and 
pivotable support. 
2 
@ Push the conical twin screw extruder KDSE towards the rear 
side so that the stud bolts on the mounting surface of the 
docking station* fit completely into the recesses of the base 
plate of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
Fig. 8-15 
Tighten the knurled nuts on the stud bolts by hand. 
(14) Firmly tighten the knurled nuts on the stud bolts using the cam 
wrench from the accessory kit of the docking station” 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE is very heavy and may overturn! 
Danger of injury, danger of damage to the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE when the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
overturns or falls down. 
> Before releasing the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, 
carefully check whether it is fixed securely on the docking 
station* and cannot tip over! 
———— 
66 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
Carefully check whether the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
is fixed securely on the docking station* and cannot tip over. 
Release the conical twin screw extruder KDSE. GG Be 
Remount the two plates to the front parts of the rails and fix 
them with the two M8 fillister head screws. 
Foid up the two front parts of the rails until the locking bolts on 
both sides engage. 
Make sure that the fold-down parts of the rails are properly 
locked. 
8.4.2. Cooling water/cooling air connections 
If the conical twin screw extruder KDSE mounted on the docking 
station* is to be preheated before being mounted to the 
Brabender® Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*, connect cooling water 
and cooling air already now. 
Otherwise, connect cooling water and cooling air only after 
having mounted the docking station* to the Plasti-Corder® Lab- 
Station* in order to prevent damage to or tearing off of the hoses 
when moving the docking station*. 
@ For cooling water and cooling air connection at the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE, please refer to 
chapters 8.10.4 "Cooling connections” 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 678 MOUNTING 
68 8.4.3. Mounting the docking station* with the KDSE to the Plasti-Corder® 
Lab-Station* 
“) Make sure that the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* has been leveled 
horizontally. 
& For leveling the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*, please 
refer to the separate instruction manual of the Plasti- 
Corder® Lab-Station*. 
Make sure that the isolator switch on the rear side of the Plasti- 
Corder® Lab-Station’ is in position "0". C) Make sure that the isolator switch at the docking station* is in 
position "0". C) {f the locking wheel (front view: on the left side of the Plasti- 
Corder® Lab-Station*) is in "Locked" position, open it as follows: 
Position "Locked" Position "Open" Fig. 8-16 
> Tilt the cylindrical handle out of the locking wheel (see fig. 
below, "1"). 
> Take the cylindrical handle and turn the locking wheel 
clockwise by 180° to "Open" position (see fig. below, "2"). 
Locking wheel 
Cylindrical handle — 
Fig. 8-17 
> Draw out the cylindrical handle and tilt it back into the 
locking wheel. 
(S) Push the coupling sleeve* (accessory of the Plasti-Corder® Lab- 
Station*) onto the clutch of the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*. 
Coupling sleeve* 
Fig. 8-18 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
& Push the docking station* with conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
mounted towards the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* so that the 
locking bolts of the docking station’ fit into the location holes of the 
Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* and the coupling sieeve* completely 
embraces the clutch of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
@ If necessary, slightly turn the clutch of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE by hand until it fits into the 
coupling sleeve*. 
If the locking bolts are not leveled with the location holes of the 
Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*, adjust the height and leve! the 
docking station* correspondingly by means of the adjustable feet. 
& For leveling the docking station*, please refer to the 
separate instruction manual of the docking station*). 
Push the docking station* with conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
towards the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* all the way to the stop. C) Lock the docking station* at the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*: 
> Tilt the cylindrical handle out of the locking wheel (see fig. 
below, "1"). 
> Take the cylindrical handle and turn the locking wheel 
counterclockwise by 180° to "Locked" position ("2"). 
—— Cylindrical handle 
Locking wheel 
Fig. 8-19 
> Draw out the cylindrical handle (see fig. below, "1") and tilt it 
back into the locking wheel ("2"). 
Cylindrical handle 
Fig. 8-20 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 698 MOUNTING 
8.5 Mounting the feed hopper 
The feed hopper of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE is 
disassembled for shipping purposes and is included separately 
in the scope of supply. Before first start-up of the machine, the 
feed hopper must be mounted onto the feed opening of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
If the feed opening is uncovered, the rotating screws* of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE are bare. 
Risk of severe injury, entanglement hazard! 
When properly mounted and fixed, the feed hopper prevents 
access to the rotating screws* within the processing unit. 
> 
a) 
oO 
Feed hopper with protective grid 
Clamping ring 
70 Prior to initial start-up of the Brabender® conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE, mount the feed hopper onto the feed opening 
of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE! 
Operation of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE without 
the feed hopper (or any other feeder* which safely prevents 
access onto the rotating screws*) being mounted and 
secured properly is not permitted! 
Never disassemble the protective grid in the feed hopper! 
Loosen the Allen screw at the clamping ring of the feed hopper. 
@ Do not unscrew the screw completely. 
Put the feed hopper onto the feed throat of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE and press it down. 
Retighten the Allen screw at the clamping ring of the feed hopper. 
Allen screw 
at the clamping ring 
Fig. 8-21 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
8.6 Mounting the die head* 
@ For mounting the die head“, please also refer to the separate 
instruction manual of the respective die head*. 
Lubricate the threaded ring of the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE with copper paste. 
@ Prior to mounting the die head*, make sure that the 
sealing surfaces are perfectly clean (see red areas in 
the fig. below)! 
Ring nut of the die head” 
Sealing surface at the KDSE, 
insert copper sealing ring here 
Fig. 8-22 Sealing surface ai the die head* 
Copper sealing rings can be (2) Put a copper sealing ring (ID no. 2 14 106) from the discharge 
ordered from Brabender®: side onto the sealing surface of the conical twin screw extruder 
ID no. 2 14 106 KDSE (see fig. above, detail on the right). 
The copper sealing ring protects the sealing surfaces 
of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE and of the die 
head* from damage when the die head* is being 
tightened. 
The copper sealing ring can be used several times. It 
should, however, be taken out with the bronze spatula 
and replaced by a new one due to the increasing vault 
of the copper sealing ring in regular time intervals (once 
per months in case of everyday use of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE). 
(3) Mount the die head* and tighten the ring nut manually at the 
threaded ring of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
@ The ring nut is tightened firmly only after the entire 
system has reached full operating temperature. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 718 MOUNTING 
72 Bayonet nipple 
Bayonet nipples 
for control thermocouples 8.7 Mounting the control thermocouples 
Y The contro! thermocouples of the three heating/cooling zones of 
the conical twin screw extruder KDSE are included separately in 
the scope of supply and must be mounted into the 
corresponding bayonet nipples on the underside of the 
processing unit (see fig. below) prior to first start-up. 
Fig. 8-23 
Insert the control thermocouples into the bayonet nipples on the 
underside of the processing unit and lock them by pressing the 
bayonet lock upwards and, at the same time, turning it clockwise. 
@ The spring of the control thermocouple must have a 
slight tension when locked. 
If applicable, mount any further control thermocouples* (e.g. of a 
heating ring* or die head*) likewise into the corresponding 
bayonet nipples of the respective module. 
For connection of the control thermocouples and heater band 
cables, please refer to chapter 8.10.2 "Melt temperature and 
control thermocouples, heater band cables" 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
8.8 Mounting of pressure transducer(s)* and melt 
temperature thermocouple(s)* 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
When mounting or disassembling measuring transducers* during 
operation, hot product may spurt out under pressure through the 
measuring bore - risk of serious burning, risk of damage to the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE and to nearby machines! 
> Mounting or disassembly of measuring transducers* is only 
permitted when the machine has been switched off and 
depressurized! 
Make sure that the drive unit* of the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE cannot be switched on by mistake! 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
The membrane of the pressure transducer* is just some 1/10 mm thick 
and is very sensitive. Risk of damage to or destruction of the 
membrane by rigid or pointed tools! 
The transmission medium of the pressure transducer* is mercury! 
If the membrane of the pressure transducer* is damaged, little 
amounts of mercury may emerge - risk of poisoning! 
Never touch the membrane of the pressure transducer* with 
rigid or pointed objects! 
When the pressure transducer* has been disassembled, 
always protect the membrane with the protective cap! 
Remove the protective cap only just before mounting the 
pressure transducer* into the conical twin screw extruder KDSE! 
Risk of damage to the pressure transducer* when mounting it into a 
contaminated measuring bore. When the pressure transducer* 
protrudes into the screw barrel, it may be damaged by the screw*! 
Make sure that the measuring bores are perfectly clean. 
If necessary, clean the measuring bores with a suitable tool 
{ident. no. 2 97 589). 
Make sure that the pressure transducer* does not protrude into 
the screw barrel! 
Excessive tightening of the measuring transducers* may damage the 
threads of the measuring transducers* and or the measuring bores. 
> — Only tighten the measuring transducers* after full heating up. 
Always use a torque wrench for this purpose! 
> Do not exceed the max. torque of 20 Nm! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 738 MOUNTING 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE has got three measuring bores 
¥%" * 20 UNF for mounting pressure transducers* or melt temperature 
thermocouples*. 
Measuring bores 4%" * 20 UNF 
for pressure transducers* or 
melt temperature thermocouples* 
Fig. 8-24 
Mount the pressure transducers* and/or melt temperature 
thermocouples* as follows into the measuring bores of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE (laterally at the processing unit and at the top of the 
threaded ring, see fig. above) and of the die head”. 
@ Brabender® urgently recommends mounting of a pressure 
transducer into the top bore of the threaded ring in order to 
monitor the melt pressure at the screw tips and to prevent 
excessive pressure which might lead to failure of the bursting pin. 
(1) Use a 6 mm Allen screw in order to unscrew the closing bolts 
from the corresponding measuring bores. 
Unscrewing a lateral closing bolt 
Fig. 8-25 
Lubricate the thread of the measuring transducer* with copper paste. 
Mount the measuring transducer(s)* into the corresponding 
measuring bore(s). 
Make sure the measuring transducer(s)* do not protrude into the barrel. 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Excessive tightening may damage the threads of the 
measuring transducers* and of the measuring bores! @) 
cs 
ca) 
8) 
> In cold condition, only tighten the measuring 
transducers* hand-tight! 
> Only tighten the measuring transducers* after full 
heating up. Always use a torque wrench! 
Do not exceed the max. torque of 20 Nm! 
74 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
8.9 Mounting a vent exhaust block* 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
When disassembling the vent plug and mounting the vent exhaust 
block* during operation, hot product may spurt out under pressure 
through the vent dome- risk of serious burning, risk of damage to 
the conical twin screw extruder KDSE and to nearby machines! 
> Mounting or disassembly of the vent plug/vent exhaust block* 
is only permitted when the machine has been switched off and 
depressurized! 
> Make sure that the drive unit* of the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE cannot be switched on by mistake! 
When operating the conical twin screw extruder KDSE with a vent 
exhaust block*, excessive melt pressure may cause the hot 
product to rise in the vent dome and, in extreme cases, spurt out 
under pressure - risk of serious burning, risk of damage to the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE and to nearby machines! 
> Always be very careful when increasing the speed of the 
conical twin screw extruder in venting mode! Take care that 
no material rises through the vent dome! 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
The edges of the vent plug and of the vent exhaust block* are very 
fragile and very sharp - risk of injury, risk of damage to the edges 
of these parts! 
> Handle the vent plug and the vent exhaust block* with 
utmost care in order to avoid injuries and damage to the 
edges! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 758 MOUNTING 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE is shipped with the vent plugged. 
For operating the machine in the venting mode, remove the vent plug 
from the vent plug holder and mount the vent exhaust block instead. 
Vent piug holder 
Vent exhaust 
block* 
Vent plug “a 
Fig. 8-26 
(4) Unscrew the closing plug from the corresponding measuring 
bore (6 mm Allen key). 
Unscrewing the lower 
closing plug 
(2 Disassemble the vent plug from the vent piug holder. 
(3) Mount the forcing screw into the vent plug holder. 
@ The forcing screw must be mounted into the vent plug 
holder before screw the vent exhaust block onto the 
vent plug holder. 
ia 
Forcing screw 
Fig. 8-28 
(‘y Screw the vent exhaust block” with the four screws onto the 
vent plug holder. 
& If desired, a vacuum pump* can be connected to the vent dome. 
76 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
8.10 Connections 
8.10.1 Safety devices 
a Connect the 12-pole cable of the proximity safety switch of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE, coming out on the left side 
(seen in processing direction) from under the gear cover hood, 
to the socket "Safety Device" on the control side of the 
Plastograph® EC Plus* and on top of the docking station’, 
respectively (see figs. below). 
See point marks on plug and socket! 
@ The conical twin screw extruder KDSE can only be 
operated if the cable of the safety device is connected 
properly to the corresponding socket. 
Safety plug ~~ 
in socket 
"Safety Device” 
Safety plug 
_- insocket ; 
"Safety Device" 
Fig. 8-29: Connection of the safety device Fig. 8-30: Connection of the safety device 
at the Plastograph® EC Plus* af the docking station* 
(2) Connect the 8-pole cable of the torque limitation coming out on the 
terminal side from under the gear cover hood of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE to the socket “Torque limit key’ in the left 
top comer of the control side of the drive unit* (Plastograph® EC 
Plus* or Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station’). 
@ See point marks on plug and socket! 
i ———_ Socket "Torque limit key” 
a | at the Plastograph® EC Plus* 
Fig. 8-31 
@ The conical twin screw extruder KDSE can only be 
operated if the cable of the automatic torque limitation 
is connected properly to the corresponding socket. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III {counter-rotation) 778 
78 MOUNTING 
8.10.2 Melt temperature and control thermocouples, heater band cables 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
Danger of burning, danger of damage to the heaters due to 
uncontrolled heating of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
when connecting the control thermocouples to a live controller. 
> Make sure that the drive unit Plastograph® EC Plus* or the 
docking station* has been switched off before connecting 
the control thermocouples! 
Strictly keep the following order: First connect the control 
thermocouple to the temperature control unit; then connect 
the heater band cable of the control zone to the control unit. 
Thermocouples connected improperly or not at all may cause 
overheating and, as a consequence, severe damage to the heaters! 
> Thoroughly observe the serial order of the heating/cooling 
zones when connecting the control thermocouples: 
Zone no. 1 (1. zone behind the feed zone) » to "ZONE 1" 
Zone no. 2 (medium zone of the KDSE) > to "ZONE 2" 
Zone no. 3 (discharge zone of the KDSE) ® to"ZONE 3” 
Zone no. 4 (heater band of threaded ring 
or 
4. zone of the die head*) >» to"ZONE 4" 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
() Connection of the control thermocouples: 
e Atthe Plastograph® EC Plus*: 
Connect the cables of the control thermocouples according to 
their position in the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, in 
the heating ring* (if any), and in the die head* to the 
corresponding rectangular sockets "Control Temperature" 
no. 1 - 6 at the terminal board of the Plastograph® EC Plus* 
(see fig. below). 
| Sockets for control 
thermocouples of 
zones no. 1-6 
Fig. 8-32 
® Atthe docking station‘: 
Connect the cables of the control thermocouples according to 
their position in the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, in 
the heating ring* (if any), and in the die head* to the 
corresponding rectangular sockets "Zone 1 - 6” at the 
terminal board of the docking station* (see fig. below). 
i Sockets for control 
thermocouples of 
zones no. 1-3 bh Sockets for control 
thermocouples of 
q zones no 4-6 
Fig. 8-33 
Make sure that all control thermocouples have been connected 
properly. iS 
(3) Connection of the heater band cables: 
e Atthe Plastoaraph® EC Plus’: 
Connect.the heater band cables according to their position in 
the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, in the heating ring* 
(if any), and in the die head* to the corresponding round 
sockets "Control Temperature" no. 1 - 6 at the terminal board 
of the Plastograph® EC Plus* (see fig. below). 
© Sockets for heater 
band cables of 
zones no. 1-6 Sockets "Stock Temperature” 
for melt temperature 
thermocouples 
Fig. 8-34 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 798 MOUNTING 
80 e Sockets for heater band 
cables of zones no. 1 - 3 
Sockets “Stock Temperature" 
for melt temperature 
thermocouples CC e Atthe docking station*: 
Connect the heater band cables according to their position in 
the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, in the heating ring* 
(if any), and in the die head* to the corresponding round 
sockets "Zone 1 - 6" at the terminal board of the docking 
station* (see fig. below). 
® Sockets for heater 
band cables of 
zones no. 4-6 
Make sure that all heater band cables have been connected 
properly. 
Connect any melt temperature thermocouples according to their 
position in the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, in the heating 
ring’ (if any), and in the die head* to the corresponding sockets 
"Stock Temperature" at the terminal board of the Plastograph® EC 
Plus* (see Fig. 8-34) or at the docking station* (see Fig. 8-35). 
Plug any free sockets "Control Temperature'/'Zone 1 - 6" and 
"Stock Temperature" at the terminal board of the Plastograph® 
EC Plus* or at the docking station* with short-circuit plugs. 
@ Free "Control Temperature” or "Stock Temperature" 
sockets that have not been plugged with a short-circuit 
plug cause a software alarm! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark It (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
8.10.3 CAN connection 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Live connection or disconnection of CAN bus cables may cause 
short-circuit and, as a consequence, cause damage or destruction of 
CAN bus modules. 
> Before connecting the CAN bus cable, make sure that the CAN- 
bus cable and the plug are in an operationally safe condition 
(visual check)! 
Before connecting or disconnecting the CAN bus cable, 
make sure that the isolator switch of all instruments is in 
position "0" (OFF). 
@ The following always applies to the connection of CAN modules: 
e The PC* (if any) is always the 1. module of the CAN system. 
e On the last CAN module of the system, the terminal resistor 
must be plugged into the CAN-OUT socket. 
@ The terminal resistor must be plugged into the second 
terminal of the PC CAN card. 
Qh If, instead of the PC*, a Laptop* or a Mini-PC* is used (only 
with software version 4.x and further}, into which the standard 
PC CAN card IXXAT) does not fit, a USB-to-CAN_interface* 
with _an_additional gender changer* must be used. In this 
case, the terminal resistor must be plugged onto the USB 
interface* (see fig. below). 
@ When connecting a USB interface* to a normal PC*, always 
connect the USB interface* to a USB port on the rear side of 
the PC* because data transmission from the rear side ports is 
usually better than from the front side USB ports of the PC”, if any. 
USB-to-CAN interface* Laptop* 
(ID no. 2 41 907) 
CAN cable 
Terminal resistor* 
(ID no. 2 22 131) 
Gender changer* 
(ID no. 2 16 027) Fig. 8-36 
CAN cable 
Concerning the CAN connection of the Plastograph® EC Plus* 
or Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* to the PC*, please refer to the 
corresponding separate instruction manual. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 818 
82 MOUNTING _ 
(4) Screw the 7-pole CAN adapter cable(s)* onto the pressure 
transducer(s)*. 
The CAN adapter cables* have got an ID no. and an 
engraved number on the screw joint (see fig. below), e.g.: 
® IDno. 6 82 136.001 > no.1 
e IDno. 6 82 136.002 > no. 2, etc. 
a i 4 
4 | = Pressure transducer* 
Engraved no. >" ee! 
(= position within the 
CAN bus (here: 2) 
ID no. 
(here: 6 82 136.002) Se 
\ CAN adapter cable* 
Fig. 8-37 
The engraved number shows the position of the 
pressure transducer* in the CAN bus onto which the 
respective CAN adapter cable* has to be mounted: 
1 > onto the 1. pressure transducer” in the CAN bus 
2 + onto the 2. pressure transducer* in the CAN bus 
etc. (see fig. below) 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
In case of a wrong allocation of the CAN adapter cables* to the 
mounted pressure transducers’, the pressure values measured are 
allocated to the wrong pressure transducer! 
Risk of faulty measurements, risk of excessive pressure building 
up in the barrel which may even blow off the die head*! 
Risk of severe injury, risk of property damage by parts being 
blown off and by hot melt spurting from the machine! 
> Take care for correct allocation of the CAN adapter cables* to 
the mounted pressure transducers* according to their position 
in the CAN bus! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
CAN bus system with a single CAN pressure transducer* 
GAN-IN [| \ GAN-OUT 
a Abschlusswiderstand 
Terminal resistor 
, Fig. 8-38 Abschtusswiderstand 
Terminal resister 
CAN bus system with several (here: three) CAN pressure transducers* 
| ___ Prerery ie iy _o— 
Kommunikationskabel He lana 
‘Communication cable 
/AN-IN COMPUTER, Yi 5 
Abschlusswidersiand io. 8 Terminal resistor Fig. 8-39 
Only for Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station* with docking station*: 
Connect the CAN communication cable fixed in the left top of 
the terminal board of the docking station* to the socket 
"Communication" at the left top of the Plasti-Corder® Lab- 
Station” (see fig. beside). Socket 
“Communication” 
Fig. 8-40 
(2) Via a CAN cable* (needs to be ordered separately), connect the 
"CAN-OUT" socket at the terminal board of the Plastograph® EC 
Plus or docking station* with the "CAN-IN" socket of the first 
pressure transducer* in the conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
@ Depending on the system configuration, different CAN 
modules may follow (see examples below). 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 838 MOUNTING 
84 Examples for the connection of CAN modules with a Plastograph® EC Plus*: 
“omelet 
Fig. 8-41: KDSE with a single pressure transducer* and a die head* without 
pressure transducer* 
Testing resiior 
Fig. 8-42: KDSE with several pressure transducers* and a die head* with a 
pressure transducer* 
‘Terriaalresisior 
Fig. 8-43: KDSE with pressure transducer’ with a die head* with pressure 
transducer* and a subsequent CAN conveyor belf* 
Fig. 8-44: KDSE with pressure transducer* with a die head* with pressure 
transducer*, a subsequent CAN conveyor belt*, and a CAN pelletizer* 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark II (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
Examples for the connection of CAN modules with a Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*: 
Abseaussuttermand _ ‘Tenn! resistor ‘Aexchssswiderstand Terminal resistor 
Fig. 8-45: KDSE with a single pressure transducer* and a die head* without 
pressure transducer* 
> [uonens-qe7 3 
“Terminal reson Absethusevidersand ‘Tenia psitor 
Fig. 8-46: KDSE with several pressure transducers* and a die head* with a 
pressure transducer* 
Terminal ressor 
Fig. 8-47: KDSE with pressure transducer* with a die head* with pressure 
transducer* and a subsequent CAN conveyor belt* 
cava) 
RR, fe —$$—$ «+ 
Osseo ‘Terminal resistor 
Fig. 8-48: KDSE with pressure transducer* with a die head* with pressure 
transducer’, a subsequent CAN conveyor belt*, and a CAN pelietizer* WOneIS-qe7 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 858 MOUNTING 
86 (4) If there is no subsequent CAN module: 
> Plug the terminal resistor onto the "CAN-OUT” socket of the 
pressure transducer* in the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE. 
If there are further CAN modules (e.g. further pressure 
transducers* in the die head*, a conveyor belt*, a pelletizer*): 
> Connect the "CAN-OUT" socket of the pressure transducer* 
via the CAN connection cable to the "CAN-IN” socket of the 
subsequent CAN module. Vv Connect any further CAN modules likewise. Vv Plug the terminal resistor onto the "CAN-OUT" socket of the 
last CAN module in the system. 
8.10.4 Cooling connections 
8.10.4.1 Cooling water connection for gear cooling 
@ Usually, gear cooling is required only in case of continuous 
operation with intensive machine use, i.e. in case of extensive 
test series with high gear stress, or at processing temperatures 
of approx. 200°C or higher. 
@ For gear cooling, water or air can be connected to the gear 
cooling flanges. 
Cooling water flanges 
for gear cooling 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Extremely low cooling water or cooling air temperature may cause 
condensate formation in the gear unit and in the feed zone. 
In case of extremely low gear temperatures, cold transmission may 
cool down the screws* in the feed zone so that the time for reaching 
stationary conditions may be rather long. 
The gear oil viscosity may increase in case of very low 
temperatures. This may cause problems with gear lubrication and, 
in extreme cases, cause damage to the bearings in the gear unit. 
> Only use cooling water or cooling air from the normal 
water/cooling water or compressed air net for gear cooling! 
> Do not use a cold air generator or similar apparatus! 
If required, connect water or air for gear cooling as follows: 
@ Textile hoses are stronger than simple plastic hoses 
and should, therefore, be preferred. 
© Water cooling: 
Use two suitable hoses (inner diameter 9 - 10 mm) to 
connect cooling water (0.2 - 0.5 min S approx. 12 - 30 I/h) 
from the water or cooling water supply net to the two gear 
cooling flanges on the left side of the gear housing (seen in 
processing direction, see Fig. 8-49). 
& In order to avoid air bubbles in the cooling pipes, 
connect the hoses as follows: 
Supply: bottom flange 
Discharge: top flange 
eh in case of water cooling, the gear unit and the 
feed zone of the KDSE can also be cooled in 
series from a single connection (gear unit first, 
feed zone second), or via a T-piece. 
e Air cooling: 
Use two suitable hoses to connect cooling air from the 
compressed air net (oil-free air, approx. 0.5 - 1.5 bars). The 
flow direction is free. 
(2) Secure all hose connections with hose clamps. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 878 MOUNTING 
8.10.4.2 Cooling water connection for feed zone 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
When cooling water is connected to the control zones of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE, hot steam develops within the 
barrel and may escape suddenly and under a high pressure. 
Risk of severe burning, risk of serious damage to the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE! 
> Connect cooling water only to the feed zone and to the gear 
unit, if required! 
> Never connect cooling water to any other control zone! 
Use two suitable hoses (inner diameter 9 - 10 mm) to connect 
cooling water (0.2 - 0.5 l/min) from the water supply net to the 
supply and discharge flanges of the feed zone of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE (see fig. below). 
Textile hoses are stronger than simple plastic hoses 
and should, therefore, be preferred. 
3 Supply and discharge can be connected at will. in 
order to evaporate any air from the cooling water lines, 
the recommended direction is as follows: 
Supply: bottom flange 
Discharge: top flange 
@ The gear unit and the feed zone of the KDSE can also 
be cooled in series from a single connection (gear unit 
first, feed zone second), or via a T-piece. 
Feed zone cooling water: 
Discharge 
Supply 
88 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
8.10.4.3 Cooling air connection to the barrel control zones 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
When cooling water is connected to the control zones of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE, hot steam develops within the 
barrel and may escape suddenly and under a high pressure. 
Risk of severe burning, risk of serious damage to the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE! 
> Only connect cooling air to the barrel control zones of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE! 
> Never connect cooling water to the barrel control zones of 
the conical twin screw extruder KDSE! 
@) If required, connect cooling air for cooling the control zones of 
the conical twin screw KDSE. 
@ Apply cooling air only if required. 
> Use suitable plastic hoses in order to connect the cooling 
air flanges of the barrel control zones of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE (see Fig. 8-51) to the flanges 
“Cooling Air" zones no. 1 - 3 at the terminal board of the 
Plastograph® EC Plus* (see Fig. 8-52) and of the docking 
station’, respectively (see Fig. 8-53). 
Cooling air flanges Cooling air flanges 
"Zone 7 - 3" of the barrel control zones 
Cooling air flanges , 
"Air Cooling” Zone 1 - 4 
Flange “Air Cooling IN" 
Fig. 8-52: Cooling air flanges at the Fig. 8-53: Cooling air flanges at the terminal 
Plastograph® EC Plus* board of the docking station* 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 898 MOUNTING 
NOTICE 
Excessive pressure may burst off the hoses from the cooling air 
flanges. 
> Only connect compressed air with a max. pressure of 2 bars! 
> Use a suitable plastic hose in order to connect cooling air 
from the compressed air net (0.5 - 1.5 bar, max. 2 bars, 
oil-free air) to the central cooling air flange at the terminal 
board of the Plastograph® EC Plus* (see Fig. 8-52) and at 
the bottom of the frame of the docking station*, respectively 
(see fig. below). 
Central cooling air flange 
(0.5 - 1.5 bar, max. 2 bars) Fig. 8-54 
2 Secure all hose connections with hose clamps. 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
Very hot air may escape from the cooling air outlets under the 
processing unit (see fig. below). Risk of burning! 
> Never look directly into the cooling air outlets or touch them 
with your bare hands! 
Cooling air outlets 
Fig. 8-55 
De a 
90 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
8.11 Mounting the screws* 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
As, with certain products, disassembly and cleaning of the 
screws* and cleaning of the processing unit must be done at 
operating temperature, the heaters must continue running in this 
case. 
The hot processing unit, the screws*, and the die head’, if any, may 
reach temperatures of up to approx. 400°C. 
Risk of severe burning! 
> Always wear suitable protective gloves! 
> Always take care to keep a sufficient distance of unprotected 
parts of your body to the hot screws* and to the hot 
processing unit! 
Deposit hot machine components on suitable, heat-resistant 
surfaces only. 
Place clear warning signs beside any hot parts in order to 
avoid unintentional touching by third persons. 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
Improper mounting of the screws* involves the risk of injury for the 
operating staff and the risk of damage to the instrument. 
> All mounting and modification work at the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE may only be carried out with due care by 
technically skilled personnel! 
Only use suitable tools for any mounting and modification 
work! 
Never use any sharp-edged or pointed tools or any other 
tools that might damage the surface of the screws* and/or of 
the processing unit! 
@ Upon supply, the screws* usually have been factory mounted. If 
not or if other screws* are to be mounted, please follow the 
instructions below. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Il {counter-rotation) 918 MOUNTING 
8.11.1 Disassembly of the processing unit 
(1) If the front parts of the two rails have been folded down, fold up 
the two front parts of the rails until the locking bolts on both 
sides engage. 
(2) Make sure that the fold-down parts of the rails are properly 
locked. 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
The two bows between the feed zone and the processing unit may 
fall down and cause damage to the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE or to the mobile frame* and the docking station‘, 
respectively. 
> Hold the two bows with your hand when loosening the 
screws! 
(3) Loosen the four hexagon head cap screws at the two bows 
between the feed zone and the processing unit (one bow with 
two screws on each side) and carefully draw off the bows. 
Hexagon head cap screws 
Fig. 8-56 
(4) Hold the processing unit at the two handles and draw it towards 
the discharge side until the screws* are completely bare. 
@ In order to get more freedom of movement for 
disassembling or mounting the screws*, the processing 
unit can be turned on the mobile and pivotable support. 
Processing unit, drawn off and 
turned 
Scews* 
Fig. 8-57 
92 Conica! twin screw extruder KDSE Mark IIt (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
8.11.2 Disassembling/mounting the screws* 
ie) The bores for taking the screws* and the screws* themselves 
are marked with "R" and "L" (right/left). During mounting, take 
care for correct positioning of the screws*! 
Marker Marker 4 upipan 4 pipe 
Fig. 8-58 
() If there are still screws* mounted in the processing unit, clean 
them with a brass brush while they are still mounted. 
@ See chapter 11 “Cleaning” for this purpose. 
(2) If applicable, turn the screws” by hand until the screws for fixing 
the sleeve and the limit stop, which are visible through the 
inspection glass (see fig. below, detail), are exactly on top. 
a Only in this position, the fixing screws of the screws* 
are on top and can be reached and loosened. 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
The fixing screws of the screws* may fall into the gear box. In this 
case, the gear box must be opened in order to take out the fixing 
screws. 
> Only slightly loosen the fixing screws of the screws*. Do not 
completely unscrew them! 
(3) Slightly loosen the two fixing screws of the screws” using the 
3/32" socket spanner from the accessory kit. 
@ ow loosen the fixing screws, do not unscrew them! 
Screws fixing the 
sleeve on the 
gear shaft 
Screws fixing the 
screw stop 
@ For loosening the fixing 
screws of the screws*, = 
these screws must be 
exactly on top Mm Access to the fixing screws 
» of the screws* 
Fig. 8-59 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark fll (counter-rotation) 938 MOUNTING 
94 Proximity safety switch 
Bow 
C) 
(J Draw the screws’ off in pairs from the motor shafts and put them 
onto a suitable surface. 
If necessary, continue cleaning the screws* and dry them 
thoroughly afterwards. 
Insert the clean or new screws* into the bores with the fixing 
screws being on top and push them onto the gear shafts all the 
way to the stop. 
@ Take care for correct positioning (right/left). 
Check whether the screws* can be turned without the screw 
flights contacting each other anywhere. 
Retighten the fixing screws of the screws’. 
Tilt the processing unit so that the holes are exactly in front of 
the screw tips. If necessary, slightly lift the processing unit; then 
push it over the screws all the way to the stop. 
Fig. 8-61 
Mount the two bows one after the other from the side onto their 
fixing screws and retighten the fixing screws. 
@ Take particular care for correctly mounting the bow 
which is on the right side, seen in processing direction, 
so that the proximity safety switch is in contact with its 
counterpart. 
fa 
Hexagon head cap screws 
= i Fig. 8-62 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)8 MOUNTING 
8.12 Mains connection 
Electrical hazard! 
> Before connecting the Brabender® instrument to the mains, 
make sure that the mains data correspond to the data on the 
name plate of the Brabender® instrument! 
Only connect the Brabender® instrument to a mains socket 
with a protective earth contact (PE)! 
YY Make sure that the isolator switch of the Plastograph® EC Plus* 
and of the docking station*, respectively, is in position "0" (see 
fig. below). 
Fig. 8-63: Isolator switch at the Fig. 8-64: Isolator switch at the 
docking station* Plastograph® EC Plus* 
2 . @ Connect the mains plug of the Plastograph® EC Plus* and of the 
docking station*, respectively, to a mains socket with a 
protective earth contact (PE). 
If applicable, connect the mains plug of the Plasti-Corder® Lab- 
Station* to a mains socket with a protective earth contact (PE). 
@ Before taking the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
into operation, make yourself familiar with the functions of the 
individual system components and of the software“! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 958 MOUNTING 
96 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark It (counter-rotation)9 START-UP 
9 START-UP 
9.1 Safety notes concerning start-up 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
Improper start-up of the instrument involves the danger of injury 
for the personnel and the risk of damage to the instrument. 
> Start-up of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
may only be carried out by qualified operating personnel! 
@ For starting up the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, it is 
imperative to observe the separate instruction manuals of the 
drive unit* and of the docking station”, if applicable! 
9.2 Preparations, switching on 
Go) 
Q 
Q 
4 
a 
i) Make sure that the entire machine system stands firmly and safely. 
Check all connections and fittings for proper seat and tightness. 
Make sure that the emergency motor stop button and the emergency 
shut-off switch at the Plastograph® EC Plus* and at the Plasti- 
Corder® Lab-Station*, respectively, are free and easily accessible. 
If applicable, make sure that the docking station* has been 
locked properly at the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*. 
If applicable, make sure that the emergency shut-off switch at 
the docking station* is free and easily accessible. 
Make sure that the 12-pole plug of the proximity switch safety 
switch of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE has been 
connected properly to the socket "Safety Device" at the 
Plastograph® EC Plus* or on top of the docking station’. 
Make sure that the 8-pole plug of the automatic torque limitation of 
the conical twin screw extruder KDSE has been connected properly 
to the socket "Torque limit key” in the left top comer of the drive unit*. 
Start up the drive unit* and the docking station*, if any, according 
to the instructions given in the corresponding separate instruction 
manual. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 979 START-UP 
9.3 Functional check of the safety devices 
9.3.1 Proximity switch safety device 
Check function of the safety ce) Make this check every day before starting work! 
switch daily before starting work! 
Set the speed potentiometer at the drive unit* to 0. 
Press the “Loc” key te) at the control and display unit. 
=> The yellow LED at the "Loc" key & lights up. 
Press the "Start" key © at the control and display unit in order 
to activate the drive unit*. 
=> The green LED at the "Start" key i lights up. GO C6 @ 
Set a low speed (approx. 10 rpm) at the speed potentiometer of 
the drive unit”. 
= The drive starts rotating with the preset speed. 
Speed potentiometer 
"Start" key 
"Loc" key 
Fig. 9-1 
(5) Disconnect the plug of the proximity switch safety device from 
the socket "Safety Device" on the control side of the 
Plastograph® EC Plus* (see Fig. 9-2) or on top of the docking 
station* (see Fig. 9-3). 
Fig. 9-2 i Fig. 9-3 
Safety plug disconnected => The motor of the drive unit* must stop immediately. 
v 
. . . . If th ts f the drive unit* does not sto Drive unit* rust step immediately aS hea i 
immediately, the proximity switch safety device is 
defective. 
98 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)9 START-UP 
In case of a defective safety switch, the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE may run in an uncontrolled way. 
Risk of injury, danger of damage and/or destruction of the entire 
machine system! 
In case of a defective safety switch: 
> Switch off the drive unit* of the Brabender® conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE immediately! 
> Inform the Brabender® Service dept. (see chapter 2 “Contact")! 
Do not start-up the conical twin screw extruder KDSE and 
the drive unit*! 
(8) If the motor of the drive unit* stops properly, connect the plug of 
the proximity switch safety device to the socket "Safety Device" 
on the control side of the Plastograph® EC Plus* or on top of the 
docking station* again. 
9.3.2 Emergency motor stop button at the drive unit* 
Check function of the emergency @ For checking the emergency motor stop button of the drive unit*, 
motor stop button of the drive unit* please refer to the separate instruction manual of the drive unit* 
daily before starting work! 
9.3.3. Emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) at the drive unit * 
Check function of the emergency @ For checking the emergency shut-off switch of the drive unit*, 
shut-off switch of the drive unit* please refer to the separate instruction manual of the drive unit* 
daily before starting work! 
9.3.4 Emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) at the docking station* 
Check function of the emergency & For checking the emergency shut-off switch of the docking 
shut-off switch of the docking station* station’, please refer to the separate instruction manual of the 
daily before starting work! docking station*. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 999 START-UP 
100 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)10 SETUP AND OPERATION 
10 SETUP AND OPERATION 
10.1 Target group 
@ For a definition of the target group for setup and operation of the 
Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE, please refer to 
chapter 4.2. 
ay For setup and operation of the entire measuring system, it is 
imperative to observe the separate instruction manuals of all 
other system modules” and of the extruder program WinExt* 
10.2 Daily work before start of operation 
O EYeres 
Risk of property damage! 
Risk of damage to the processing unit and to the screws* 
when running the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
without product or only with additives over a long period 
of time! 
> Before switching on the drive unit* and the docking 
station*, make sure that the speed of the drive unit* 
and of any upstream feeders* has been set to 0! C Make sure that all control thermocouples have been mounted 
correctly in their respective heating zones (see chapter 8.7). 
@ The spring of the control thermocouple must have a 
slight tension. 
Make sure that all control thermocouples have been connected 
properly to the temperature controllers of the respective zone. 
Make sure that all heater band cables have been connected 
properly. 
* If not yet done, switch on the drive unit* and the docking station 
(if any) at their respective isolator switch. 
Check the function of the safety devices acc. to chapter 9.3. GOcceceaé Feed zone cooling water: Before heating up the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, open 
0.2 - 0.5 min cooling water supply to the feed zone (0.2 - 0.5 l/min). 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill {counter-rotation) 10110 SETUP AND OPERATION 
a) If required, connect cooling air to the individual control zones of 
the conical twin screw extruder KDSE as follows: 
> If not yet done, mount the cooling air hoses. 
See chapter 8.10.4.3 "Cooling air connection to 
the barrel control zones”. 
> Open cooling air supply to the Plastograph® EC Plus* or to 
the docking station* (oil-free air, approx. 0.5 - 1.5 bars, 
max. 2 bars). 
Make sure that all feed openings are free. 
Make sure that all additional modules* connected are ready for 
operation. 
Start the computer*. 
Start the extruder program WinExt* at the computer’. 
The surfaces of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, the 
protective cover sheet over the processing unit, parts of the feeder*, 
and the protective cover over the screw shaft coupling may reach 
temperatures of up to approx. 400°C. 
Even after switching off of the system, these surfaces may still be 
very hot for a long time. 
Risk of severe burning! 
> 
102 Always wear suitable protective gloves when working at the 
machine system! 
Always take care to keep a sufficient distance of unprotected 
parts of your body to the hot surfaces! 
Set the processing parameters in the WinExt software* 
See separate instruction manual of the WinExt software*. 
Heat up the conical twin screw extruder KDSE through the 
software*. 
@ See separate instruction manual of the WinExt software*. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)10 SETUP AND OPERATION 
(15) During heating-up, check whether all heaters work properly and 
whether the zone temperatures of all control zones are indicated 
correctly in the WinExt software*. 
When the entire machine system has reached the nominal 
temperature and this is stable, check all screw joints for tight seat 
and retighten them, if necessary. 
Tighten the union nut of the die head*. = I 
Check the tightening torques of the pressure transducers* and 
of the melt temperature thermocouples* 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Excessive tightening of the measuring transducers* may 
damage the measuring transducers* and the corresponding 
threaded bores! 
> Always use a torque wrench for tightening the 
measuring transducers*! 
> Firmly tighten the measuring transducers* only 
after having reached the operating temperature! 
Tightening torque: max. 20 Nm 
in hot condition 
Set the speed potentiometer of the drive unit* to 0. 
Speed potentiometer 
"Start" key =~ 
“Loc” key 
Fig. 10-1 
Press the "Loc" key ® at the control and display unit of the 
Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station’. 
=> The yellow LED at the "Loc" key 6 lights up. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 10310 SETUP AND OPERATION 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Risk of damage to the screws"! 
> Never have the screw of the Brabender® conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE run for more than 20 s at a max. speed of 
20 rpm in dry condition! 
Risk of damage to the processing unit and to the screws*, risk of 
obstruction of the feed zone! 
> Only start the conical twin screw extruder KDSE with an 
empty feed hopper when it has reached full operating 
temperature! 
(24) Press the "Start" key © at the control and display unit of the 
drive unit* in order to activate the drive *. 
= The green LED at the "Start" key © lights up. 
CE NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Risk of damage to or destruction of the entire machine 
system by parts mounted wrongly! 
Set the speed potentiometer to approx. 5 rpm. 
Have the screws* run for a few seconds at this speed 
and take care for any sliding or scratching noise! 
In case of grinding or scratching noise: 
e Immediately set the speed potentiometer to 0. 
e Find out and eliminate the cause of the noise. 
After a few seconds, set the speed potentiometer to 0 again. 
eS eee 
104 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark {Il (counter-rotation)10 SETUP AND OPERATION 
10.3 Running a measurement 
10.3.1 General remarks 
Some Brabender® software programs offer the possibility of 
programming speed profiles. In this context, the machine system, 
controlled by the program, may start automatically from standstill 
position. 
Danger of injury, danger of damage to the machine system! 
> Never insert any tools into the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE when the drive unit* is connected to the mains! 
Operation of the Brabender® drive unit* in "Local" mode may cause 
operating troubles due to wrong parameter setting. 
Danger of injury, danger of damage to the machine system! 
In normal operation, always control the Brabender® drive 
unit* through the software (i.e. in "Remote" mode)! 
Measurements must not be run in "Local" mode! 
Use the "Local" mode only for short terms and only for 
cleaning purposes! 
eh As many settings in the WinExt software* depend on the product 
to be processed and on the entire system configuration (conical 
twin screw extruder KDSE, screws*, feeders*), only some 
general instructions concerning the test procedure are given in 
the following. 
For this reason, the program windows shown are just examples 
and the entries in the individual fields may vary. 
If you have any questions concerning the test procedure, please 
do not hesitate to ask the experts of the Brabender® laboratory. 
Before starting a test with the Brabender® conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE, make yourself familiar with the functions of the 
Brabender® software program* used. 
For running a test with the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE, it is imperative to read the corresponding chapters of the 
separate instruction manual of the drive unit* used, of the 
docking station” (if applicable), of the WinExt program’, and, if 
applicable, of the additional equipment* used as well. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) ~ 10540 SETUP AND OPERATION 
10.3.2 Measurement 
The surfaces of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, the 
protective cover sheet over the processing unit, parts of the feeder*, 
and the protective cover over the screw shaft coupling may reach 
temperatures of up to approx. 400°C. 
Even after switching off of the system, these surfaces may still be 
very hot for a long time. 
Risk of severe burning! 
> Always wear suitable protective gloves when working at the 
machine system! 
> Always take care to keep a sufficient distance of unprotected 
parts of your body to the hot surfaces! 
(4) If the yellow LED at the "Rem" key i) at the control and display 
unit of the drive unit* is not on, press the "Rem" key oS 
= The yellow LED at the "Rem” key S lights up. 
(2) Press the "Start" key <_* at the control and display unit of the 
drive unit* in order to activate the drive unit*. 
@ The drive unit* can only be activated if the safety plug 
of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE has been 
connected properly to the socket "Safety Device" of the 
Plastograph® EC Plus* or of the docking station* 
=> The green LED at the "Start" key lights up. 
@ Despite pressing of the "Start" key & the motor 
will not yet start because in "Remote" mode, the 
drive unit* is started through the software”. C) Prepare the sample material (pellets/powder, liquids to be 
added, if applicable). 
If not yet done, start the extruder program WinExt” at the computer*. CC Make sure that the entire machine system has reached full 
operating temperature and that this temperature is stable. 
oe 
106 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)10 SETUP AND OPERATION 
Ge In the extruder program WinExt*, click the button F or select 
the menu "File" - "New". 
= The parameter window appears: 
Di 
Testiateri! | Equipeert | ve 
TN ne er ee a a 
» Orter Feammer Date [16 Gamnar ota 
Grenier Bie fanter 
Pe a ee a ee 
+ Supeiet fresEntER our 
start pe sie 
Conpoas | teh Denssy [Item 
Payor i Buk Densty 
Abie Temperate f 
= |] Fig. 10-2 
Set the desired test parameters in the parameter window of the 
extruder program WinExt*. 
@ Please refer to the separate instruction manual of the 
WinExt program* concerning entry of test parameters. 
In the parameter window, click the "Equipment" tab. 
> The "Equipment" tab appears: 
Dietype [ond =] ‘Aux Speed Corey Bai 6 wimp =| 
‘Aux. Speed 2 (Peitetizer 10min | 
‘Aux Speed3. [None | 
Fig. 10-3 
Enter the settings concerning the equipment according to the 
separate instruction manual of the extruder program WinExt* 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 10710 SETUP AND OPERATION 
Click the button in the toolbar of the WinExt program’. 
> The test will be started. 
= The monitor shows the on-line diagram and the equipment 
window and, on the right side, the control functions. 
5 Control functions 
Fig. 10-4 
If desired, enter alarm limits for certain measuring values in the 
WinExt software’. 
See separate instruction manual of the WinExt software* 
(12) Click the button in the control functions. 
> Awindow for entering the nominal extruder speed appears: 
jw 
‘Extruder Speed 
1 Setpoint 
Enter a low value in the field "Setpoint", e.g. "10". eee) Click the button on the right beside the button (ee. | in the 
control functions in order to start the drive unit* of the conical 
twin screw extruder KDSE. 
™> The button changes to [ie] 
> The drive motor starts. 
@ The drive motor will not start before the difference 
between the actual and nominal temperature is < 10°C. 
108 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)10 SETUP AND OPERATION 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Excessive torque and pressure may cause damage to the entire 
machine system! 
> Always carefully observe the torque and pressure values 
when feeding material into the machine! 
(i5) Slowly feed the product into the conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
Continue feeding product until product comes out of the die*. 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Excessive torque and pressure may cause damage to the entire 
machine system! 
> When increasing the speed of the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE, always carefully observe the torque and 
pressure values! 
As soon as melt comes out of the die, carefully increase the 
speed of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE to the desired 
value. 
G@ The optimum speed depends on the product 
processed and on the screws* of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE. 
In the control functions of the WinExt program”, click the button 
on the right beside the button [store in order to start saving of 
the measuring values. 
= The button changes to [e] 
= The measuring values will now be saved in the cycle time 
selected. 
@ For further details concerning running a test using the WinExt 
software*, please refer to the separate instruction manual of the 
WinExt software”. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 10910 SETUP AND OPERATION 
For stopping the test, click the button ie in the toolbar of the 
main window in order to stop the test and the drive unit* of the 
conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
> The speed of the drive unit* is set to zero automatically. 
a Heating continues until it is stopped manually. 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
When the drive unit* stands still and heating is still on, thermal 
degradation of polymers may occur within the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE! 
Risk of damage to the screws* and to the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE. 
> 
110 Restart the drive unit immediately in "Loc" mode at a iow 
speed as long as there is still product in the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE and heating is still on (see steps below)! 
Immediately upon automatic resetting of the speed to zero, press 
the "Loc" key & at the control and display unit of the drive unit*. 
> The yellow LED at the "Loc” key Ve) lights up. 
Set a low speed (approx. 10 rpm) at the speed potentiometer of 
the drive unit*. 
=> The drive’ starts rotating with the preset speed. 
= The material within the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
will continue to be transported through the processing unit. 
For cleaning the conical twin screw extruder KDSE upon 
completion of ail tests, run the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE until it is empty. 
@ The_conical_twin screw _extruder KDSE_must_be 
cleaned immediately in order to prevent cooling down 
of the sample material within the processing unit. 
Cleaning must be done as quickly as possible in order to 
avoid excessive cooling down of the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE. 
The longer the cleaning time, the longer the time needed 
afterwards for reaching the preset starting conditions! 
For cleaning the conical twin screw extruder KDSE upon 
completion of the tests, please refer to chapter 11 “Cleaning”. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)11 CLEANING 
11 CLEANING 
11.1 Safety notes concerning cleaning 
Hot surfaces at the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, at the 
feeders’, if any, and at the cover hood of the gear unit! Hot cooling 
air and cooling water fittings! 
Risk of severe burning, risk of property damage! 
Always wear suitable protective gloves! 
Always take care to keep a sufficient distance of unprotected 
parts of your body to the hot surfaces! 
Dispose hot machine parts on suitable, heat-resistant 
surfaces only! 
Place clear warning signs beside any hot parts in order to 
avoid unintentional touching by third persons. 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
The use of unpermitted cleaning agents or tools involves the risk of 
damage to the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE and 
to the screws*. 
> For removing the sample material and for cleaning the conical 
twin screw extruder KDSE and the screws’, only use the tools 
from the accessory kit (brass brush and bronze spatula) and 
soft, non-fraying cloths! 
Never use any sharp-edged or pointed tools or any other 
tools that might damage the surfaces of the screws* and/or 
of the processing unit! 
Never use any corroding cleaning agents! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 41114 
112 CLEANING 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Residual product which hardens or cross-links within the machine 
or instrument involves the risk of automatic speed limitation or 
motor shut-down by the automatic torque limitation. 
Humidity, in particular distilled water, or residues of other 
aggressive products, cause wear such as abrasion and/or 
corrosion up to pitting. 
IMPORTANT NOTE: All parts with product contact are wear 
parts, i.e. warranty for such parts is 
generally excluded! 
Empty the instrument or machine completely after each test! 
Thoroughly clean all parts with product contact in regular time 
intervals or after each test, if necessary, depending on the 
product processed. 
Take particular care for clean and dry sealing surfaces, 
angles, and grooves. 
Thoroughly dry all parts after cleaning! 
Never have any cross-linking material cool down or harden 
within the instrument or machine! 
Never leave any residues of aggressive products such as 
ceramics, distilled water, etc. within the instrument or 
machine for a prolonged time! 
During cleaning, take care for any signs of wear! 
For a definition of the target group for cleaning of the 
Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE and the required 
skills, please refer to chapter 4.2. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)11 CLEANING 
11.2 Cleaning after each test series 
& Immediately after each test series, the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE must be cleaned thoroughly in hot condition. 
This also applies to the die head* and to the feeders’, if any. 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Residual material which hardens or cross-links within the processing 
unit involves the risk of damage to the screw* and of excessive 
torques during the start-up process. 
> Empty the conical twin screw extruder KDSE completely 
after each test series! 
> Thoroughly clean the processing unit, the screws*, and the 
die head* from any residual material! 
Never have any cross-linking material cool down or harden 
within the processing unit! 
() Run the conical twin screw extruder KDSE at operating temperature 
until there is no more product in the feed hopper or feeder*. 
@ Concerning the processing temperature of the cleaning 
compound used, please refer to the instructions of the 
manufacturer of the respective cleaning compound. 
(2) Proceed as follows for decreasing the barrel temperature: 
A suitable cleaning compound e With operating temperatures < 200°C: 
for temperatures < 200°C is, e.g., > Load an LDPE into the feed hopper of the conical twin 
“EXREIN", Messrs. Baerlocher screw extruder KDSE or into the feeder’. 
> While the LDPE runs through the processing unit, lower 
the temperature through the WinExt software* to the 
maximum admissible temperature for the cleaning 
compound to be used subsequently. 
> Run the conical twin screw extruder KDSE with the LDPE 
until the admissible temperature for the cleaning compound 
is reached and only pure LDPE comes out of the die*. 
> Load the cleaning compound into the feed hopper or 
into the feeder*. 
>» Run the conicat twin screw extruder KDSE with the 
cleaning compound until only pure cleaning compound 
comes out of the die*. 
> Stop the feeder’, if any, through the WinExt software* 
or stop feeding cleaning compound into the hopper. 
> Run the conical twin screw extruder KDSE until no 
more melt comes out of the die* 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 41311 CLEANING 
e With operating temperatures > 200°C: 
A suitable high-temperature > Load a suitable high-temperature cleaning compound 
cleaning compound for into the feed hopper of the conical twin screw extruder 
temperatures > 200°C is, e.g., KDSE or into the feeder*. 
“Asaclean", Messrs. Velox > Run the conical twin screw extruder KDSE with the 
high-temperature cleaning compound until only pure 
high-temperature cleaning compound comes out of the 
die* 
es While the high-temperature cleaning compound 
tuns through, the temperature of the processing 
unit can be lowered through the WinExt 
software* if you want to use another 
cleaning compound subsequently. 
> Stop the feeder’, if any, through the WinExt software* 
or stop feeding cleaning compound into the hopper. 
> Run the conical twin screw extruder KDSE until no 
more melt comes out of the die* 
Press the "Stop" key ° at the control and display unit of the 
drive unit*. 
= The drive motor of the measuring extruder stops. 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE and the die head* may be 
very hot! 
Risk of severe burning, risk of property damage! 
Always wear suitable protective gloves! 
Always take care to keep a sufficient distance of unprotected 
parts of your body to the hot surfaces! 
Deposit hot machine components on suitable, heat-resistant 
surfaces only! 
‘ Place clear warning signs beside any hot parts in order to 
avoid unintentional touching by third persons. 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
When loosening the union nut of the die head*, the die head* may fall 
down. 
> Firmly hold the die head* when loosening the union nut or 
secure it in another way against falling down! 
114 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)11 CLEANING 
(4) Disassemble the die head” as follows: 
> In the WinExt software*, set the temperature of the die 
head* to "0". 
> Disconnect the heater band cable of the die head* from the 
terminal board of the Plastograph® EC Plus* or docking 
station*. 
> Unscrew the pressure transducer* and/or the melt temperature 
thermocouple* or the corresponding closing bolts from the die 
head* and dispose them on a suitable, heat resistant surface. 
> Disassemble the control thermocouple” from the die head*. 
@ Do not disconnect the cable of the control 
thermocouple* of the die head* from the terminal 
board of the Plastograph® EC Plus* or docking 
station* as this would cause an alarm. 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
During cleaning, the membrane of the pressure transducer* may be 
damaged. 
> Always clean the pressure transducer* while it is still hot! 
> Take care not to damage the pressure transducer membrane! 
> Carefully clean the pressure transducer*, the melt temperature 
thermocouple* and/or the closing bolts of the die head* 
while they are still hot. 
> Unscrew the union nut of the die head* from the threaded 
ring of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE by turning it 
counter-clockwise. 
> Disassemble the die head* and put it onto a suitable, heat 
resistant surface. 
@ For cleaning the die head*, please refer to the 
separate instruction manual of the die head* 
(5) Press the "Loc" key ° at the control and display unit of the 
drive unit*. 
> The yellow LED at the "Loc” key S lights up. 
(§) Set a low speed (approx. 5 rpm) at the speed potentiometer of 
the drive unit*. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark II! (counter-rotation) 11511 CLEANING 
116 qt, tet Press the "Start" key ~~ at the control and display unit of the 
drive unit* in order to activate the drive unit* again. 
= The conical twin screw extruder KDSE immediately starts 
rotating with the speed set at the potentiometer. 
Run the conical twin screw extruder KDSE until no more product 
comes out at the screw tip. 
(2) Press the "Stop" key S at the control and display unit of the 
drive unit*. 
= The drive motor of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE 
stops. 
If the front parts of the two rails have been folded down, fold up 
the two front parts of the rails until the locking bolts on both 
sides engage and make sure that they are properly locked. 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
When disassembling the processing unit of the conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE with a mounted feeder* and die head* from the gear 
unit, the processing unit may drop over. Risk of injury, risk of 
property damage! 
> Always first disassemble the die head* and the feeder’, if 
any, and only then disassemble the processing unit from the 
gear unit! 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE may still be very hot! 
Risk of severe burning, risk of property damage! 
> Always wear suitable protective gloves! 
> Always take care to keep a sufficient distance of unprotected 
parts of your body to the hot surfaces! 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
The two bows between the feed zone and the processing unit may 
fail down - risk of property damage. 
> Hold the two bows with your hand when loosening the screws! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)41 CLEANING 
(11) Loosen the four hexagon head cap screws at the two bows 
between the feed zone and the processing unit (one bow with 
two screws on each side) and carefully draw off the bows. 
Hexagon head cap screw 
Bow 
Fig. 11-1 
(12) Hold the processing unit at the two handles and draw it towards 
the discharge side until the screws* are completely bare. 
@ In order to get more freedom of movement for 
disassembling or mounting the screws", the processing 
unit can be turned on the mobile and pivotable support. 
Processing unit, drawn off and 
turned Screws* 
Fig. 11-2 
The screws* may be very hot! 
Risk of severe burning, risk of property damage! 
> Always wear suitable protective gloves! 
> Always take care to keep a sufficient distance of unprotected 
parts of your body to the hot screws* and to the hot surfaces 
of the processing unit! 
Deposit the screws* on suitable, heat resistant surfaces only. 
Piace clear warning signs beside any hot parts in order to 
avoid unintentional touching by third persons. 
(3) First clean the screws* with the supplied brass brush while they 
are still mounted. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 11741 CLEANING 
' 
If applicable, turn the screws* by hand until the screws for fixing 
the sleeve and the limit stop, which are visible through the 
inspection glass (see fig. below, detail), are exactly on top. 
@ Only in this position, the fixing screws of the screws* 
are on top and can be reached and loosened. 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
If the fixing screws of the screws* are unscrewed completely, it is 
very difficult to screw them into the threaded bores again. 
> Only slightly loosen the fixing screws of the screws*. Do not 
completely unscrew them! 
When the screws for fixing the limit stop and/or the screws for 
fixing the sleeves on the gear shafts (see fig. below, detail) are 
loosened, the screws* may run against the die adapter - risk of 
destruction of the screws* and on the complete machine system! 
> Never loosen the screws for fixing the limit stop and/or the 
screws for fixing the sleeves on the gear shafts! 
The use of unpermitted tools involves the risk of damage to the 
processing unit and to the screws*. 
> Never use any sharp-edged or pointed tools or any other 
tools that might damage the surface of the screws* and/or of 
the processing unit! 
Slightly loosen the two fixing screws of the screws* using the 
3/32" socket spanner from the accessory kit. 
@ Only loosen the fixing screws, do not unscrew them! 
Screws fixing the 
sleeve on the 
gear shaft [> Access to the fixing screws 
Screws fixing the f of the screws* 
screw stop 
@ For loosening the fixing 
screws of the screws", 
these screws must be 
exactly on top Fig. 11-3 
————————— eo 
118 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)11. CLEANING 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
The use of unpermitted tools involves the risk of damage 
to the processing unit and to the screws*. 
> Disassemble the screws* in pairs from the motor 
shafts either with your hands (wear protective 
gloves!) or using suitable tools (bronze or wooden 
spatulas) and deposit them on a suitable, heat 
resistant surface! 
Never use any sharp-edged or pointed tools or any 
other tools that might damage the surface of the 
screws* and/or of the processing unit! 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Product residues at the screws* and/or in the processing 
unit of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE lead to 
increased wear at the screws* and at the processing unit 
and falsify the measuring results of the subsequent 
measurement. 
> Immediately after each test series, clean the screws* 
and the barrel bores with the supplied round brush 
while they are still hot, then dry them thoroughly. 
Take particular care for cleaning and drying any 
grooves and corners! 
If the screws* have already cooled down, remount them to the 
gear shafts and push the hot processing unit over the screws” 
until the adhering product flows again. 
Also thoroughly clean the barrel bores with the supplied round 
brush while they are still hot and dry them afterwards. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark II (counter-rotation) 11914 CLEANING 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
 Screws* not properly mounted and fixed can run against 
the die adapter at the screw tip which inevitably will 
destruct the screws* and the die adapter. 
> Remount the screws* properly as described in 
chapter 8.11.2 "Disassembling/mounting the screws*". 
> Retighten the two fixing screws of the screws* with 
the 3/32" socket spanner! 
(2) If no further tests are to be run, click the red button 
in the control functions in the WinExt software’ in order to switch 
off all heaters. 
=> The button changes to [@ 
> All heaters are switched off. 
it) Before starting the next test series, make sure that all test 
parameters have been set correctly, that the entire machine 
system has reached the nominal temperature and that this 
temperature is constant. 
120 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)12 MAINTENANCE 
12 MAINTENANCE 
12.1 Safety notes concerning maintenance 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Improper maintenance of the instrument involves the risk of 
damage to the instrument. 
> Maintenance of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE may only be carried out by instructed personnel! 
@ For a definition of the target group for maintenance and the 
required skills, please refer to chapter 4.2. 
@ In order to provide for professional maintenance of the 
Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE, you can enter 
into a maintenance contract with Brabender® customer service. 
For this purpose, please contact the Brabender® Service 
department (see chapter 2 "Contact"). 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark ill (counter-rotation) 12112 MAINTENANCE 
12.2 Maintenance intervals 
e All tubes and hoses as well as the corresponding connections and 
screw joints must be checked for their general condition and 
tightness every day before starting work. 
© The gear unit of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE contains a 
special gear oil (e.g. Vactra 4 ISO VG 220). The gear oil must be 
changed in regular time intervals. 
@ Concerning gear oil change, please refer to chapter 12.3 
"Gear oil change" 
e In case of everyday use, check the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE and the screws* for abrasion every time when cleaning the 
machine or every 2 weeks, at the latest (visual check). 
Keep the following maintenance intervals: 
Maintenance work Interval 
Check Execution 
© Check of tubes, hoses, Visual check of general every day before starting work 
and fittings condition and tightness 
© Gear oil change — 1. oil change: 
after 500 - 1000 operating hours 
further oil changes: 
every 4000 - 5000 operating hours 
e = Abrasion check Visual check every time during cleaning or every two 
weeks at the latest 
122 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)412 MAINTENANCE 
12.3 Gear oil change 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
Impurities in the gear oil or unsuited gear oil may cause damage to 
the gear unit. 
> Change the gear oil in regular time intervais: 
1. oil change: after approx. 500 - 1000 operating hours 
further oil changes: every 4000 - 5000 operating hours 
> Do not mix up lubricating oils! 
> Only use the gear oil admitted by Brabender®! 
Impurities in the gear oil may indicate wear. 
> Always check the drained oil for impurities in order to early 
recognize wear in the gear unit! 
Drain the gear oil immediately after stopping the machine 
while it is still at operating temperature. 
The gear oil can be ordered from Brabender® (ID no. 2 11 075, see 
chapter 16 "Accessories"). 
station’, if any, to position "0" ("OFF"). 
Disassemble the conical twin screw extruder KDSE from the 
drive unit*. ) Set the isolator switches of the drive unit* and of the docking 
Unscrew and remove the four fixing screws of the gear cover 
hood (two on each side, mind the assignment of the screws to 
the sides). 
Fixing screws 
of the gear cover hood g, 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 12312 MAINTENANCE 
(4) Loosen and unscrew the two water flanges for gear cooling (see 
fig. below) using an adjustable open-end spanner”* (special tool, 
not included in the accessory kit). 
Water flanges 
for gear cooling 
Fig. 12-2 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
When taking off the gear cover hood, the safety switch which is 
fixed thereon may be damaged. 
> Be very careful not to tear off or damage the safety switch 
when disassembling the gear cover hood! 
& Carefully take off the gear cover hood. 
Gear cover hood 
Oil inspection glass/ 
oil drain screw 
GSB. : Fig. 12-3 
Put a suitable container (capacity approx. 0.5 |) as near as 
possible under the oil inspection glass/drain screw. 
(7) Unscrew the oil drain screw and drain the oil into the container. 
Inspect the oil for excessive contamination and foreign bodies. 
@ In case of excessive contamination or foreign bodies 
such as metal shavings in the gear oil, please 
immediately contact the Brabender® Service 
department (see chapter 2 "Contact'). 
124 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)12 MAINTENANCE 
(2) Unscrew and remove the eight fixing screws of the gear box 
cover. 
ca) Mind the exact position of the gear box cover in order 
to remount it correctly later-on. 
Gear box cover 
Fig. 12-4 
Fil fresh gear oil into the gear box (approx. 0.3 |, i.e. approx. half 
full), While pouring in the oil, turn the screws by hand (see fig. 
below) and drain the remaining old oil as far as possible with the 
fresh oil. 
Gear box ——, 
Fig. 12-5 
(4) Fill in fresh gear oil until the gear box is about half filled. 
When the gear box cover hood has been disassembled, the 
rotating gear wheels are bare. 
Danger of severe injury, entanglement hazard! 
> Operation of the conical twin screw extruder KDSE without 
the gear box cover hood being properly mounted is not 
permitted! 
(12) Remount the gear box cover the right way round and fix it with 
the eight screws. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 12512 MAINTENANCE 
(#3) Remount the gear cover hood but do not yet fix it. 
Apply PTFE band or sealing compound onto the threads of the 
two water flanges. 
(15) Reinsert the two water flanges and fix them. 
NOTICE 
Risk of property damage! 
When fixing the gear cover hood, the cable of the safety switch can 
be pinched and damaged. 
> When mounting and fixing the gear cover hood, make sure 
that the cable of the safety switch is not pinched or clamped! 
Fix the gear cover hood with the four screws. 
The fixing screws of the gear cover hood differ in size: 
long screws > into long bolts 
short screws > into short bolts 
Remount the conical twin screw extruder KDSE to the drive 
unit* 
Please follow the instructions in chapter 8.3.2 (for 
Plastograph® EC Plus*) and 8.4.3, respectively (for 
Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*). 
Dispose the old gear oil in an ecologically sound way. 
Gi Schedule the next gear oil changes after approx. 4000 to 5000 
operating hours. 
126 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)13 TROUBLE-SHOOTING 
13 TROUBLE-SHOOTING 
This chapter lists some possible troubles which may occur during 
operation of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE and 
measures to be taken for eliminating these troubles. 
For trouble-shooting, please also refer to the chapter "Trouble- 
shooting" of the separate instruction manual of the drive unit* 
used and of the docking station’, if applicable. 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
The conical twin screw extruder KDSE, the cooling air and cooling 
water fittings, and further additional equipment, if any, remain very 
hot even for a long time after switching off of the heaters! 
Risk of severe burning, risk of damage to contact surfaces by hot 
machine parts! 
Always wear suitable protective gloves! 
Always take care to keep a sufficient distance of unprotected 
parts of your body to hot machine parts! 
Deposit hot machine components on suitable, heat-resistant 
surfaces only. 
Place clear warning signs beside the hot machine parts in 
order to avoid unintentional touching by third persons. 
Harmful or irritant vapor, gas, or liquids! 
Danger of chemical burn, danger of eye injuries or respiratory 
complications! 
Always wear suitable protective gloves and safety goggles 
when working near to feed, discharge, or vent openings! 
Never !ook directly into feed, discharge, or vent openings 
without suitable eye protection! 
Always keep a sufficient distance of the respiratory organs 
to any feed, discharge, or vent openings. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill {counter-rotation} 12713 TROUBLE-SHOOTING 
No.| Error Cause/measure 
1 Torque rises steeply atthe Cause: 
beginning of the test until 
the electronic torque 
limitation is activated Screws* got stuck due to insufficient cleaning or overloading or 
unmolten product 
® Screws* mounted wrongly (torque rises steeply at once) 
e Foreign bodies within the barrel or in the screw channels (torque 
rises steeply after a few revolutions of the screws*) 
Measures: 
4 Press the emergency motor stop button or click the button 
in the WinExt program’. 
=> The drive motor is reset to zero automatically. 
Hot surfaces at the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, hot melt in 
the barrel! 
Risk of severe burning, risk of property damage! 
> Always wear suitable protective gloves and safety goggles 
when working at the conical twin screw extruder KDSE! 
> Always take care to keep a sufficient distance of unprotected 
parts of your body to the hot surfaces! 
Dispose hot melt into suitable, heat-resistant containers only! 
Draw the processing unit of the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE off the screws* as described in chapter 8.11.1. CO oC 
Visually check whether the product is completely molten. 
> If not, increase the temperatures of the control zones in the 
WinExt software* for the next measurement so as to ensure 
complete melting of the product. 
(4) Check the screws": 
e Are the screw channels free? 
e Are the screw tips exactly in line with each other? 
e Are the screws* mounted properly in the supporting bores? 
(5) Thoroughly clean the screws* and the barrel bores with the 
supplied brass brush, then dry them. 
See notes and instructions in chapter 11. 
128 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)13 TROUBLE-SHOOTING 
No.| Error Cause/measure 
[1] [continued] 
2 The conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE cannot 
be started () Remount the screws*. 
Push the processing unit over the screws* and fix it. 
Carefully try to restart the system as described in chapter 10.3.2. 
Cause: 
No power supply to the drive unit* and/or to the docking station* 
Wrong mains voltage at the drive unit* and/or at the docking station* 
Emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) at the drive unit* and/or 
at the docking station* in position “O" 
Emergency motor stop button of the drive unit* activated 
Cable of the safety device not properly connected to the socket 
"Safety Device" 
Cable of the torque limitation of the conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE not properly connected to the socket "Torque limit key" 
CAN cable not properly connected (CAN-IN and CAN-OUT and/or no 
terminal resistor plugged onto CAN-OUT socket) 
Motor of the drive unit* overheated 
Fuse of the drive unit* and/or of the docking station* released or defective 
Inverter error at the drive unit* 
Measures: 
(4) Check whether the mains plugs of the drive unit* and of the Oee docking station’, if any, have been connected properly to the 
mains. 
Check whether the mains voltage meets the data on the name 
plate of the drive unit* and of the docking station’, if any. 
Make sure that the isolator switches of the drive unit* and of the 
docking station’, if any, are in position "I". 
Check whether the emergency motor stop button of the drive 
unit* has been actuated (pressed down) by drawing the 
emergency motor stop button upwards. 
@ The red signal lamp of the emergency motor stop button 
flashes when the emergency motor stop button has been 
actuated (pressed down). 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)} 12913 TROUBLE-SHOOTING 
No.| Error Cause/measure 
[2] [continued] 
(s) Check whether the cable of the safety device has been 
connected properly to the socket "Safety Device" at the 
Plastograph® EC Plus* or on top of the docking station*. 
Check whether the cable of the torque limitation of the conical 
twin screw extruder KDSE has been connected properly to the 
socket "Torque limit key" at the drive unit*. 
In case of operation with a Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*: Make 
sure that the 12-pole CAN communication cable of the conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE has been connected properly to the socket 
“Communication” at the Plasti-Corder® Lab-Station*. 
(2) Check whether all CAN connection cables have been connected 
properly to the sockets "CAN-IN" and "CAN-OUT" of the CAN 
modules or, if the conical twin screw extruder KDSE is the last 
CAN module in the system, check whether the terminal 
resistance has been plugged onto the "CAN-OUT" socket of the 
last CAN pressure transducer* in the system (if any) or on the 
"“CAN-OUT" socket of the docking station* (see also chapter 
8.10.3 "CAN connection"). 
@ If these measures are not successful, please follow the 
instructions concerning this error in the chapter "Trouble- 
shooting” in the instruction manuals of the drive unit* and of the 
docking station* 
3. The conical twin screw Cause: 
extruder KDSE does not — wrong operating mode ("Loc'/"Rem’) set at the control and display unit of 
start running although the drive unit* 
power supply is on and a 
speed was set at the 
potentiometer or in the 
software” () Measures: 
Check whether the correct operating mode has been set: 
© For speed setting via the PC*: (es 
LED "Rem" must light 
e For manual speed setting at 
the potentiometer: 
LED "Loc" must fight 
130 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)13 TROUBLE-SHOOTING 
No.| Error Cause/measure 
4 Alarm message "Control Cause: 
thermocouple error” at 
the controller and in the 
WinExt software* © Control thermocouple broken or defective ¢ Control thermocouple connected wrongly 
Measures: 
) Check whether the corresponding control thermocouple has 
been mounted properly and whether it has been connected 
properly to the corresponding controller. 
> if this is the case, the control thermocouple may be broken 
or defective. 
> In this case, please contact the Brabender® Service 
department (see chapter 2 “Contact"). 
> Do not take the conical twin screw extruder KDSE into 
operation any more! 
§ Bursting pin broken Cause: 
® Excessive pressure at the screw tips 
Measures: 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
When the bursting pin fails, hot product and, possibly, hot steam, 
gas, or liquid may emerge under high pressure through the 
bursting pin until the pressure at the screw tips has released! 
Danger of severe burning, danger of chemical burn, eye injuries, or 
respiratory complications, and risk of damage to or destruction of 
machine parts or of machines nearby by hot material spurting out 
through the bursting pin! 
> Always keep a sufficient distance to emerging hot product! 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 131 13. TROUBLE-SHOOTING 
No.| Error | Cause/measure 
[5] [continued] 
Disassembly of the oid and mounting of the new bursting pin must 
be done at operating temperature in order to prevent damage to 
the membrane of the new bursting pin by any hardened product 
residues! 
Hot surfaces at the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, hot melt in 
the processing unit! 
Risk of severe burning, risk of damage to storage surfaces and/or 
disposal containers! 
> Always wear suitable protective gloves and safety goggles 
when working on the machine! 
> Always take care to keep a sufficient distance of unprotected 
parts of your body to emerging hot product and to hot 
surfaces! 
Never hold any part of your body directly in front of or under 
the bursting pin or look directly into the bursting pin! 
> Discharge hot material into suitable, heat-resistant 
containers only! 
When operating the conical twin screw extruder KDSE without 
bursting pin, impermissibly high pressure may build up at the screw 
tips! The gear bearings may be damaged and/or the die head* may be 
blown off! 
Danger of most serious injuries, risk of property damage by 
machine parts being blown off and by hot melt spurting from the 
machine! 
> Once activated, IMMEDIATELY replace the bursting pin! 
> Only use genuine Brabender® bursting pins (ID no. 4 30 308, 
see chapter 17 "Spare parts")! 
Carry out steps no. 1 - 7 listed under the measures for error no. 1. 
Carefully unscrew the old bursting pin from the threaded ring. 
Screw in a genuine Brabender® bursting pin (ID no. 4 30 308). Gece For restarting the conical twin screw extruder KDSE, please 
follow the instructions in chapter 10.3.2 
132 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)14 REPAIR 
14 REPAIR 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage! 
Improper repair work involves the danger of injury for the personnel 
and the risk of damage to the instrument. 
> Repair work at the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder 
KDSE may only be carried out by Brabender® service 
technicians or by skilled personnel authorized for this work 
by Brabender®. 
If the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE needs to be repaired, 
please contact the Brabender® customer service/Service department. 
Contact: Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG 
Kulturstrafe 51 - 55 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
@ Phone -49-203-7788-0 
e E-mail: service@brabender.com 
North American Regions 
Contact: C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
Phone 201-343-8425 
& E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 13314 REPAIR 
134 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation)15 DISPOSAL 
15 DISPOSAL 
The carrier of the instrument is responsible for ecologically sound 
disposal of the Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE or of parts 
thereof. 
e Lubrication of the gear unit of the Brabender® conical twin screw 
extruder KDSE implies the use of the process material high- 
temperature gear oil. 
e It is within the responsibility of the carrier of this machine to observe 
and apply the manufacturer's regulations and instructions in the safety 
data sheets concerning disposal - even of residues - of this process 
material. 
@ In case of a necessary disposal of the Brabender® conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE or of part thereof, we recommend 
entrusting an authorized disposal company with the disposal of 
the machine/machine parts in order to make sure that the local 
regulations concerning collection, recycling, and disposal as 
well as those concerning documentation are observed. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) ; 13515 DISPOSAL 
136 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)}16 ACCESSORIES 
16 ACCESSORIES 
For handling and operating the instrument as well as for cleaning, the 
accessories listed below are included in the scope of supply of the 
Brabender® conical twin screw extruder KDSE. 
16.1 Reordering instructions 
State the ID no. and e 
the serial number 
(see name plate)! 
If possible, state the ° 
order number as well! The individual parts of the accessory kit can be reordered like spare 
parts at any time in case of consumption. 
For all reorders of accessories of Brabender® instruments, please 
always state the 1D no. and the serial number of the instrument for 
which you require the respective part. 
These numbers are indicated on the name plate of the Brabender® 
instrument (see chapter 6.2.1 "Name plate"). 
Additional indication of the order number under which you received 
the Brabender® instrument facilitates handling of you order. 
Please address your repeat order to your local Brabender® 
representation or directly to Brabender® 
Contact: Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG 
KulturstraBe 51 - 55 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
@ Phone -49-203-7788-0 
6 E-mail: brabender@brabender.com 
North American Regions 
Contact: C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
@ Phone 201-343-8425 
és E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 13716 ACCESSORIES 
16.2 List of accessories 
ID no. —_ Designation Packing unit 
6 19 224 Extruder brush 1 pe. 
2 97 097 Brass wire brush 1 pe. 
2 4 071 Copper paste OKS240 250 g 
(-30°C - +1100°C) Z 
2 97 547 Set of Allen keys, 1/16” - 3/8" 1 pe. 
297 180 Sickle spanner 95/100 mm, DIN 1810 B 1 pe 
2 97 956 Double open ended wrench size 14 * 15 mm 1 pe. 
2 33 630 Hexagon socket key 6 mm DIN 911 1 pe. 
2 60 072 Silicon hose 8 * 12 mm 45 m 7 
2 97 457 Hose clamp with jaw adjustment 7 pes. 
@13-15*9mm 
430 217 Closing plug 4 pe! 
617 215 Heater zone connecting cable 0.6 m 1 pe. 
4-pole Tuchel 
6 73 326.002 | Control thermocouple with PTFE cable 1 pc 
3000 mm 
138 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)17 SPARE PARTS 
17 SPARE PARTS 
17.1 Ordering instructions 
State the ID no. and e For spare part orders for Brabender® instruments, please always 
the serial number state the ID no. and the serial number of the instrument for which 
{see name plate)! you require the respective part. 
These numbers are indicated on the name plate of the Brabender® 
instrument (see chapter 6.2.1 "Name plate”). 
@ Your order cannot be handled without these numbers. 
lf possible, state the e Additional indication of the order number under which you received 
order number as well! the Brabender® instrument facilitates. handling of you order. 
e Please address your spare parts order to your local Brabender® 
representation or directly to Brabender®. 
Contact: Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG 
KulturstraBe 51 - 55 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
@ Phone ~49-203-7788-0 
&@ E-mail: brabender@brabender.com 
North American Regions 
Contact: C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
@ Phone 201-343-8425 
Ga E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation) 13917 SPARE PARTS 
17.2 Spare parts list 
ID no. Designation 
315-40-035 Ceramic heater band 1900 W, 230 V (Zone 1) 
315-40-036 Ceramic heater band 1000 W, 230 V (Zone 2) 
315-40-037 ‘Ceramic heater band 1200 W, 230 V (Zone 3) 
315-40-057 Heater band MICA 400 W, 230 V (Collector) 
2 43 160 Cheese head screw 3/8"-167*1.5" - 12.9 
315-40-010 | Y-piece (Collector) 
315-40-0108 | Collector Insert 
2 43 053 Parallel pin 1/8" * 3/4" 
4 30 308 Safety bursting pin 72" * 20 UNF * 67, 700 bars/150°C 
315-40-009 Vent exhaust block 
315-40-045 O-ring for lead-through to the gear unit 
315-40-030 Screw coupling (long) 
315-40-031 Screw coupling (short) 
3-104-1020 Set screw 10-32 * 3/16" UNF (clutch) 
305-00-307 Silencer made of sinter bronze 1/8" NPT 
315-40-148 | Simmering seal KDSE gear unit input shaft 
211075 | Gear oil Vactra 4 (ISO VG 220) 
140 Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)State the ID no. and 
the serial number 
(see name plate)! 
If possible, state the 
order number as weil! 18 SUPPLEMENTARY MODULES, ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT 
18 SUPPLEMENTARY MODULES, ADDITIONAL 
EQUIPMENT 
Supplementary modules and additional equipment are modules which 
may be mounted additionally to or used in combination with the 
instrument but which are not necessarily required for operating the basic 
instrument, or parts, that may substitute standard parts of the instruments 
and need to be ordered separately 
18.1 Ordering instructions 
e = The individual parts can be ordered like spare parts at any time. 
e For orders of supplementary modules or additional equipment for 
Brabender® instruments, please always state the ID no. and the 
serial number of the instrument for which you require the respective 
part. 
These numbers are indicated on the name plate of the Brabender® 
instrument (see chapter 6.2.1 “Name plate"). 
® Additional indication of the order number under which you received 
the Brabender® instrument facilitates handling of you order. 
e Please address your spare parts order to your local Brabender® 
representation or directly to Brabender® 
Contact: Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG 
KulturstraSe 51 - 55 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
# Phone -49-203-7788-0 
& E-mail: brabender@brabender.com 
North American Regions 
Contact: C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
@ Phone 201-343-8425 
és E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark III (counter-rotation) 14118 SUPPLEMENTARY MODULES, ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT 
18.2 List of supplementary modules 
ID no. Designation 
241941 Pressure transducer with thermocouple 
142 Conica! twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill (counter-rotation)19 ANNEX 
19 ANNEX 
19.1 Electrical documents, wiring diagrams 
The electrical documents and wiring diagrams of the Brabender® conical twin 
screw extruder KDSE are included separately in the scope of supply. 
Conical twin screw extruder KDSE Mark Ill {counter-rotation) 143Fs b = wma) 
‘ 8 
10-0005 09P€8 209%e8 ‘addnubneg $ ] * e 
JOP1O J3"Td 404 II] EW ASG" l 
Psa 
=) 
yeays JaA0D yeiqioeq 
|Japuaqeig Puan | 
> ) VOrOO0aZO9Peg | WweiBeIa 
[6 ]¥ [ s' ]M [og/os]7# [aaeocz |A 
[Ns [zooves ] Pow 
(re asay) erPove 
wooyepuaqerq @sepuaqeiq &| 0- SB//" COz- Gy+:eU0UG BB 
Aueuuas Bungsing ssozr LS-6P “ASunjjny 5 
09 
8 
HqQUD 
,Jopueqeig 
Bingsing SOOBHAwS USONTavEE @ | “uaqoqien Buntuuugsnz ayDIpOOIPSAE B19SUN aUYO PUIS ‘soyeyuy saures Gunyanuen Jopo pu ue aqeBWUEIeE “BunBoypsiois2A “0A opypaQ4 a71e SUN AMA USJEYER PUES -ueGeo uay2}5e6.ep uuep vep pun jwoumyeg sess 104 Bingsing Oy OoeHquID USANSavee & 
“wappia:0; Appigs 81 Apotjne ssaidxe jnouwa Seqed pang oy ‘eunsoppsip 40 esr ‘uoRaNposdey “We/elf] PaUIEWUOD U0] TRULOIUI 2UN UI pue jUBLUNDOD SRR UI spb [He eRvEseU aN 
Japueqeig LOVES S0IAEq = enya) | 
zg LO-OOOALO9VES 5. suaeg 
=} 2o9vee stint 
Pa) 
$]U9}U09 {Jo JS! 
slUYoIaZIBAS}eYul ‘wnie0) T | | 
edeid'a Oz0z'70'rL Japuaqeig 
Bingsing SW OORHAWD NSONSEVuE O “uajoqan Gunuiwigsnz eyoIponipsne a/esun suyo PLS 
seyeu Sours Burpemie, spo pug ue eqeButexeg, “BUNdHAIOIAIA “104 B]YSY OIG SUN Jem UOAEYAG PUTS -uebiep uayjayseb1ep wep Uap pun juaWMyog sasamp s04 Bingsing DY OOPHAWD YAONSVYS & T 
| ‘UBPPICIOS Agpuys $1 Auoujne ssesdxe ynouy semed pag o} ainsopsip so esn ‘uoRonpadey ‘Welsly peUte}UoD UCR, -BuLIO]UI aU UI PUL WELUNDOP Si4} UI SIYBU IIE BAlOSAs SAA 
aysianiwusgqeijeg 9 ysl suguodw0D 
ueldyne|woyg ¢ 
uejdne|wong ¢  weibeig Bun, a\saywsqaijeg eolaap Ayes 
weiBeiq BUUIAA 
S|UYdISZISASyeYyUy Z 
yeiqyoed | $}U9}U09 JO 481] Sd|Aep Japnayxy 
SIUYDIOZJEAS}}E4U| 
}89Ys 4BA0D 
edAj JUsLUNDOp UOISIOA neiqyeq 
uoNdiosap SJUSJUOD JO }SIJ a) Bit BlArzeht & 
< 
° Ole 7 o 
Lo] 
a | = 3 K oe * 5 3 S > ot 
oe — % oa wo 
2 2 B £ 
a 4 
. 3 
~ 5 
2 ~ hi a 
o Fa Se & 
=a 
=) 
0 age, g Hn <r 
a2 es xe ugg Fe "2 8 ES ge 
o t 
QE ° 26 | ll so & oD 
8 os ‘ oo 
e So ip . =\[I se 
s oe 
. oS 
| 
. 3 
& -H- 
e_ — 
© tS 
* £ # fea] “i * | fh 
ae) ni ATL 
ge Nes 
A Wes B fa e 
8 = Pa —— || 8 & = § tl 4 N 3 “ 
z 
=i . Slt 
bel 
at} 2 ‘MO08T z na 
ic ik 
. 3s - 
Bingsind Sy OovHawS HAANSaveE & Bingsing OF OORHIUWD YIONISVAE @ 
“ueppiaios “uayoqren Bununugsnz sysIppMpsne a1asun aUYyo PUrS Agouns 81 uowne ssoidxo noun seqied pany OF sayeys) sourss Bumomion sopo anuq ue aqeRuuEIeg, ainsojasip 40 980 ‘uoyonpoxday ‘vlosayy paule|yOD WOH, “BunBgiei aso, “0A ON_oY Ol[e SUN 11M WaVEYEq PUESS ~eUMIOJU! 249 Ul pue JueUNOCP SIU] Ur SIYBU Ile SAIasI OA -uafiag ualijaysafizep uuep Uap puin JUEUIN{Og Sesalp 1D 
a T w 1 1200 
Nm 7 4 
LED 
ON 
if Be 
“U4 door is closed —a 
5 < . 2 
se z= = 
mg we 
a — 
5 8 3 Ea 
7 
2? = na 
Bu BB 3 oo 
8 Bs 
Ze Ba ON cH. % 
| 
WH cht 
—— — | f BS 
all 7 
4 28 = fy 
Hg g q 
Bougruppe 
8 
RB z3 22 Za 
834607 
D Safty device 
iring | Brabender’ iagram i 
9 Qo 
is} i=} a S is} o t isp] 
foo] 
rf 
find, 
[erat 
Bingsing OY OORHIWS WAONAEVEE @ 
“wappigioy Agoins 61 Auoupne ssaidxe inoupm saqued put oF einsoposyp Jo @sn ‘uoponpoxtay “UIaiotN PaUIOO WOR -eUMIOJUT 24) UI pure yuaRUNoOP SA Wy UBL Ye BROS! OAK 
oO fay Bingsing DW OOPHIWS AZONAEVUG @ 
-yepgles Bunuaupsnz aysIpOTpSNe BesuN eUyO Puls 
SoUeuM Sates BunyoMIan J0pO anUG UE eqeB\UEIEg “SundURIENHEA 40n expe ALE SUN AN UOHEYEG PUES -ue6e9 usy\a3Se5:ep UEP Uap pun quoUINyoG sesem Jn © @ z | 9 | is | + | ¢ i z I i | 
10-000 L09PE8 wranper| = S T Hog | Sl s]usuodLuo4g ' dedara 
LOPES ntaeg Japuaqeig | { TERT [ = 
—— — . = = = 4 
_ | al 
| | ail | | 4 i aie a i 1 age gi 
oe | + oleae ueae | aeebe oheee Fy | | opgee|3 gh5 as 
S25E 1 i aby 
2885 
] ] gees! 
| B big t = 1g 2a 
| # 23s 
a | hl I | 2 ae 
} B g3 
| ze | OHO tepusqeig| — [eujuuey yes | 00} 858812 | ox- | te) ae 
| eae 690V SOL OstINd/UsNd'|odzZ|, Jo}o@UUOTIEgGeD | 966122 gx: | | LL | 
sa'e/ jousyduny-jeyon Ls Body sojosuu0 aiqeo eeW | 6YZLLZ px: OL 
pares jousydury-jsyonL LS Byjodz o}DauUOD a/qeo ae) CSCLLZ ex- 6 
NM eae/ joueuduiy-jayon is Bilody JOJQaUUO B/Qed a|e\\) 672172 ex- | 8 
La'es jousyduny-jayon | LS Bijodp 1ojs@uU99 e]qge0 ae! 6vzLbz 1x | | 2 
SOM OW OOsHdquy Jepueqelg WNOOZ JeEpNiyXxe xoq plu} enbso} 800'S986, 29 tn- 7 | 9 | 
ZO'v/ NOYWO|  OGAPZ SL/QZ Z0-1Z-OWSN-HDL-Sed Josues Ajeyes oneuBeyy g00Z2z LS | |S 
; sa'e/ amo A0€z/'MOOP @qe} Buyesy ZS0-0%-SLE va- | + 
va'es “8M9 | AOEZ/‘MAOOZ! eae] Buyeoy ZE0-Or-S1E €3- € 
ea'e/ amo AOEZ/MOOO!L ae) Buyeoy 9E0-0F-SLE ea Zz 
| Lave amo - AOEZ/ MOOG! qe) Buyeoy GE0-OF-SLE ae Lo 
| suoyeubise yyed / aed Jayddns uolduasap quauodwoo 3 ana D P uojyjeoo| | Ajquiasse “Sod 
¥ + 2 4. 
s}usuodwosy Ce 
See 
ee 
ee. 
ne 
| Ce 
edBrabender® GmbH & Ga. KG 
Kulturstr. 49-51 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
@ Phone 
63 E-mail: +49-203-7788-0 
brabender@brabender.com 
wyw.brabender.com C.W. Brabender® Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
@ Phone +201-343-8425 
BE Fax +201-343-0608 
c= E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
www.cwbrabender.com Brabender' 
.. where quality is measured. 
O00 «BpaGengep» 
yn. Aroguuckaa, 4. 25 
420032 Kazan 
Poceua 
@ Ten. +7 843233 46 66 
Ga E-Mail: ooo.brabender@brabender.ru 
www.brabender.com