Brabender® 
... where quality is measured. 
oJ —A ad » 
Instruction Manual 
y P< eae, SS — \ % 
MetaStation 4E 
ID no. 8 156 70.xxx 
3 x 400 V, 50/60 HzCopyright 
All content, pictures, texts and graphics are protected by copyright. All kinds of 
translation, forwarding to third persons, reproduction and distribution - even of 
extracts - is prohibited without our prior express written consent. 
Brabender® and other brands not specially marked are registered trademarks of 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG. 
© Copyright by 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG 
Kulturstra e 49-51 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
Proprietary rights, brands and trademarks of third parties 
Any products registered as trademarks are not particularly marked in the present 
documentation. Existing property rights (patents, trademarks, registered or industrial 
designs) must be observed by all means. 
Original Instruction Manual 
815670-xxx_MetaStation-4E_BAdg-00-e 
Edition 0820Use of 30-mA RCDs 
If local regulations prescribe the application of 30-mA RCDs in order to protect the socket circuits, the following points 
are to be considered concerning selection of the RCDs. 
Three-phase drive controls with variable speed: 
. For operation of three-phase instruments with a three-phase frequency inverter, all-current sensitive RCDs 
type B must be used. 
Brabender recommends the RCD type DFS4 B SK made by Doepke (SK = special characteristic for increased 
tripping threshold up to 2 A in the pulse frequency range). A structurally identical RCD with the type designation 
RCCB2 is available from Messrs. EPA. 
° Do not connect more than one instrument to each RCD. Otherwise, the respective leakage currents of 
combined instruments may sum up and trigger the RCD. 
. Each Brabender device is tested as an individual consumer with the recommended RCDs and the real 
leakage current is documented. 
Single-phase instruments with variable speed drive units: 
. For the operation of single-phase instruments with frequency inverters, at least variable-current sensitive RCDs 
(type F) must be used, although all-current sensitive RCDs of type B should be preferred. The 
recommendations given above apply here as well. 
. Each Brabender device is tested as an individual consumer with the recommended RCDs and the real 
leakage current is documented. 
. If the recommendations concerning the type and model of the RCD and/or concerning operation of the device 
as an individual consumer cannot be met, please contact Brabender. The Brabender program comprises 
leakage current compensation devices and isolating transformers which can be installed in the power supply 
line. 
DGUV3 tests for electrical safety in compliance 
with the German Workplace Ordinance 
Note that electrical safety tests in compliance with VDE 0701-0702 with a leakage current threshold value of 
3.5 mA is not admitted for Brabender instruments. 
Brabender instruments are subject to the EG machinery directive 2006/42/EG which requires conformity to 
EN 60204-1 (VOE 0113) for electric layout, equipment, and tests. 
Chapter 18 (Tests) of the EN60204-1 does not prescribe leakage current tests. However, chapter 8.2.8 of the 
machinery directive makes additional requirements on protective equipotential bonding for electric equipment with 
ground leakage currents of more than 10 mA AC or DC.MetaStation 4E Contents 
Contents 
1 General Information... ccc cece cece e cee ceeceeceecescescescesseseesneeseeneeneeneeneee 9 
1.1. Use of the instruction manual... eee ec eee ce ceceteneneneee 9 
1.2. Disclaimer of liability... 
1.3 Software.. 
1.4 Scope of delivery .. 
1.5 Acquisition of components from external suppliers... 10 
{O0) a (ean pn pen PEE TEEPE ETEESENTENTENTENTENTENTENTENTENSESSENTENTENTENSENTENTENTENTENTESTENTENTENTENTETTINTENTEND 11 
Stylistic features oo... eerie cence eoetesesne seen seseteeaeeae 13 
3.1 General stylistic features... ccc ce cece cece cece eeeeeae 13 
3.2 Mandatory signs 
3.3. Design of safety messages 
4.1 Intended USC... cececceccseesecsceeceseeeessesceseecesseeasssensesieeasisensiseesasaeeseeeasonea 15 
4.2 Target Group... cece cece rece cee cee cee cee cee cee testes tee seeseetaetaeeaeeaeeed 16 
4.3 Owner's Cuties 00... ee cecceccseeeseeeeecseressseessesensseseescsecessesesseeasesecetieeateeneets 17 
4.3.1 General owner's GUtiCS ..........cccceccseeesessescseecsseeeetseenssseeeesieeesieentene 17 
4.4 — Protective AeVICES ..........eccseecessescsseeesceescseeesseseesceecessesesseeasasecatieeataeeneate 18 
4.4.1 Emergency motor stop button... eee teen neenenee 18 
4.4.1.1 Position and function of the emergency motor stop button.18 
4.4.1.2 Procedure after emergency motor stop........0..0c eee 19 
4.4.2 Emergency shut-off SWitCh 0.0.0. eect teen teenenie 20 
4.4.2.1 Position and function of the emergency shut-off switch....... 20 
4.4.2.2 Procedure after actuation of the emergency shut-off 
switch... 
4.4.3 Safety device .... 
4.4.4 Automatic torque limitation ........0..cccecceececeeceeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeneeeneeeneeenee 22 
445 Two-hand Control deVice.........:.ccceccescssseneescescsseeesseesteseeeeseeeseseneate 22 
4.4.6 BCD el ooo. ceccececceeceeeeneeeeeceeeeeeeeeeceeeeaeeeceeceeeeaeesneeeneeeneesneeeneeeneeenee 22 
4.5 Residual dangers ...... jeeeeceeeescaueesceseescssseccssueecsseecesseececseesecseseecareeecseeeecseeees 23 
4.5.1 Risk of injury when handling the measuring head.............000..e 23 
4.5.2 Unexpected start after switch-off triggered by the inverter . 
4.5.3 Danger by electricity. 
Transport and Storage 
5.1 Packaging... cece cece cece tee cee cee cee cee cesses tee seecetetaeteeeeeaeeae 25 
5.2 Unpacking... cece ce cece ce cee cee cee cee cesses see ceeseeseeseeteeteeeaeeaeeae 26 
5.3 Checking the scope of delivery oo... cece eect teeter nenenie 27 
5.4 — Checking for and notification of damage «0.0... eee eens 27 
5.5 TrAMSPOME occ cece cee cece cee eeee cent eeeeeeeeeceeeaeeeeecaeeeaeeseecaeeeeesneeseeseeeneeeneeenees 28 
5.6 StOrage oo. erence nets tenets tenon tedeseteneeneneneneees 
Components and functional features 
6.1. General description 
6.2 Designation of the sides of the instrument. ..Contents 
6.3 Product labels... cece t ces ceecesoe ses seeseseeeeeeaee 32 
6.3.1 Name plate 2.0... ecceccecececeeeeeececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeecaeseeeenaesneeeseeeeeeneeenee 32 
6.3.2 Further product labels ............ccccccceesceeceeeeeceeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeneeeneeeneeeneees 32 
6.4 Maincomponents 
6.4.1 Front side, terminal side .. 
6.4.2 Right side, rear side 
6.5 Drive motor 
6.6 Mounting Surface... cece cece cee cee cee cee cesses cesses teeseeteeneeseeeee 34 
6.7 — Spiral tooth gear CIUtCH ou... cece cece cee cee teenie tee teeteeteeneeneeneeee 35 
6.8 Connection panel 
6.9 Mobile frame (option).... 
7 MetaBridge software.... 
7.1. Starting/running down the internal PC. 
7.1.1 Starting the internal PC uw... eee eee reeereneneeeeee 37 
7.1.2 Running down the internal PC ....... eee c eee eeeeeeeeeee 38 
7.2 Start screen of the Brabender MetaBridge...........0.. cece 39 
8 Technical Data... cece cece cee cee cesses seseseseeseeesesseesesseeseeseeseeee 41 
8.1 Noise MeasSUreMeENt 0... ee ee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeseeseeseeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 42 
9 Mounting 
9.1. Safety notes concerning mounting 
9.2 Requirements to the place of mounting . 
9.3 Setup and assembly... cece eee cee cesses eee seeseeseesseeseeneeseenenae 44 
9.3.1 Leveling the instrument. 00.00.00. ccc ree rene teeteneneneee 44 
9.3.2 Removing the shipping fixture oo... cece eee ceeeeneeneeee 45 
9.4 Power supply connection 
9.5 Mounting of measuring heads 
9.5.1 Mounting of measuring heads up to YoM 08/2008 
9.5.2 Preparations for mounting a measuring mixer 
9.5.2.1 Mounting the mixer supporting fork «o.oo 48 
9.5.2.2 Mounting the mixer support (additional equipment).............. 49 
9.5.3 CAN CONNECTION ........ceccesecesesceecsseeestseesceceecatseescscencasiteasseensisneatinens 50 
9.5.3.1 CAN connection of measuring MixeFS ........... cee 50 
9.5.3.2 CAN connection of measuring extruders. 
10 Start-up ... 
10.1 Safety notes concerning start-up 
10.2 Preparations, SWitChing ON uu... cece cece cece cece ceeteceeaeeae 53 
10.3 Presettings in the MetaBridge software at initial start-up ........00 54 
10.4 Functional check of the safety devices o.oo eee cece cece eens 57 
10.4.1. Safety switch and two-hand control device «0.0.0... ee 57 
10.4.2 Emergency motor stop button.. 
10.4.3. Emergency shut-off switch 
11 Setup and operation 
11.1. Daily work before start of operation 
6 MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E 12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 Contents 
11.1.1.  MetaBridge l0g-in o.oo. ice tie niet tetnenneneneee 59 
11.2 Daily work before start of operation oo... cece teenie 60 
11.3 Running a measurement. 00.0... eccrine tierce tens teeneneneneee 61 
11.3.1  Gereral remarks .........ccccccccecsesceseseeeeeeeescsceeceseeesseserseseesssieeesieeeteees 61 
Cleaning 
Maintenance. 
13.1. Safety notes concerning maintenance... 
13.2 BearingS 0... eee een scene neni eneeneeneeseeseseseseneneeneeneneneens 65 
13.3 FAM(S)...ccccccecceeseseeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeseeeceeeeseceescaeceseeeeseeneseseeeseeeeseseeseseeeeaseeeaes 66 
13.3.1 Position, FUNCTION... eee cccccccceeccesseceecseeeecseeeeceseecesueecesaeecesseeees 66 
13.3.2 Checking the filter Mat... ccc eee cee cece cece teeeeae 67 
Trouble-Shooting.......0.. ce eee erence cess tess te tess teeteteeteeteeteteneeeees 69 
Repair .... 
Disposal . 
17.1. Accessories, spare parts, additional equipment..............:::ceceeeeeeeeeeees 81 
17.2 Electrical documents, wiring diagraMS ...........0 cece 81 
17.3 Electric interferences oo... ccc neces neers teeneeneeneneeneniee 82 
Te (<>, Gnu pnE SpE DESL EDEESEESEESEESEESEESEESEESTESEESLESLESEESEOSESSEOTEOTTOSTESTOSTESIOTIESTOSIOSISTIOSIOTIOSTOFIOR! 85 
7Contents 
MetaStetion 4ERead the manual 
thoroughly! 
Strictly observe 
instructions and 
safety instructions! 
Keep and hand over 
with the instrument! 
Keep instruction 
manual accessible at 
any time! 
MetaStation 4E General 
1 General Information 
1.1. Use of the instruction manual 
Brabender instruments/software are developed/designed and built according to the 
state-of-the-art and comply with the demand for simple and safe handling. In order 
to become familiar with the applications and to use the Brabender 
instrument/software in an optimum way, it is imperative to read this instruction 
manual very carefully before putting the Brabender instrument into operation. 
The instructions, safety instructions and precautions given in the present instruction 
manual have to be observed strictly. 
This instruction manual is delivered with the Brabender instrument/software and is 
intended for operation in practice. It is to make the operating personnel familiar with 
the Brabender instrument/software and to inform them about details concerning 
transport, storage, mounting, start-up, operation, maintenance, troubleshooting, 
and disposal. 
Maintenance and service instructions must be observed for reasons of effective 
operational safety and a long lifetime of the Brabender instrument. 
This instruction manual is, therefore, to be considered part of the Brabender 
instrument/softwareand must be kept and handed over with the instrument/software. 
The operating personnel as well as the personnel in charge of maintenance and 
repair must always have free access to this instruction manual. 
1.2 Disclaimer of liability 
Within the scope of legal regulations, Brabender GmbH & Co. KG refuses any liability 
- for whatever legal argument - for direct or indirect damage caused in connection 
with the delivery or use of the Brabender instrument/software. This is in particular 
true for - but not limited to - improper use and/or improper operation and handling of 
the Brabender instrument/software. 
In this context, Brabender explicitly excludes any warranty for wear parts, in 
particular for those with product contact. 
Under no circumstances, Brabender GmbH & Co. KG can be made liable for any 
damage or injuries caused by non-observance of the safety regulations included in 
the data sheets of the producer of substances to be tested or processed with the 
Brabender instrument. This is also valid if a recommendation was made concerning 
the application of certain substances and/or if the provision of test material is part of 
the scope of delivery and service. 
The Brabender instrument is subject to modifications of color and design as well as 
to technical modification without prior notice.General Information 
1.3. Software 
The Brabender software is developed with care and is tested internally - within the 
frame of general safety standards also for computer virus. This does, however, not 
involve any warranty whatsoever that the data carriers provided by Brabender and/or 
data transmitted electronically by Brabender are virus free. 
It is within the exclusive responsibility of the user to test the Brabender software by 
means of state-of-the-art virus searching programs and to make sure that only 
Brabender software is applied which has been duly tested for computer virus by the 
user and has been found virus free. 
Any claims arising from liability for defects concerning the functionality, 
faultlessness, and usability of Brabender software and/or concerning Brabender 
software being virus free are therefore excluded. 
Our liability for any other damage arisen by the use of the Brabender software is 
limited to intent or gross negligence. Any further liability - for whatever legal 
argument, in particular for direct or indirect consequential damage - is excluded. 
The software is subject to modification serving functional improvement and technical 
progress without prior notice. 
Due to continuous progress and development of the software, the screenshots, if 
included in the present instruction manual, may slightly differ from the software 
version delivered. 
1.4 Scope of delivery 
The scope of delivery is given in the shipping documents. 
1.5 Acquisition of components from external suppliers 
Brabender cannot guarantee that any components bought by the carrier/user from 
external suppliers and incorporated into the system without prior consultation of 
Brabender will be recognized correctly by the Brabender software and will work 
properly within the system. 
0 Brabender recommends contacting the Brabender Service dept. before 
installing such foreign components. 
10 MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E 2 Contact 
Data to be stated in case of inquiries 
If there are any inquiries to Brabender - e.g. relating to handling of the Brabender 
instrument/software, ordering of spare parts, accessories, additional equipment or to 
sending back Brabender instruments or parts of the instrumenUspare parts for 
maintenance or repair - all data given on the name plate must be stated. 
For questions concerning the Brabender software, besides the ID no. of the software 
the version no. must be stated as well. 
Contact 
For any questions, further information, or in case of problems with the Brabender 
instrument/software, please do not hesitate to contact the Brabender Service 
department. 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG 
KulturstraBe 49 - 51 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
if Phone +49-203-7788-131 
1:9 E-mail: service@brabender.com 
North American Regions 
C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. 
50East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
if Phone 201-343-8425 
ful E-mail: service@cwbrabender.comContact 
12 a oe Melo. St iion 4Efeatures 
3 Stylistic features 
3.1. General stylistic features 
The following stylistic features are used in the instruction manual: 
1. marks operating instructions in their serial order 
> [indented] marks individual steps of a preceding general instruction 
¢ [indented] marks the consequences of a preceding action 
> [in safety messages] marks operating instructions 
. mar‘<s lists or (in instructions} alternatives 
[indented] mar1<s subordinated lists 
3.2 Mandatory .signs 
The following mandatory signs are used in the instruction manual: 
0 General mandatory sign, additional information 
e Read the instructions before, cross reference 
MetaStation 4E 23features 
3.3 Design of safety messages 
The safety messages given in the instruction manual are marked by a hazard 
warning sign and a signal word. 
The signal word and the associated signal color indicate the relative severity of the 
hazard: 
f'1-tNM Describes an imminently hazardous situation which will result in death or 
serious injury if not avoided. 
WARNING 
Describes a potentially hazardous situation which is likely to result in death or 
serious injury if not avoided. 
A.CAUTION 
Describes a potentially hazardous situation which may result in minor or 
moderate injury if not avoided. 
Describes a situation which may result in property damage if not avoided. 
MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E Safety 
4 Safety 
4.1. Intended use 
Intended use 
The Brabender instrument may only be used in non-hazardous locations after having 
been completely assembled. 
The instrument may only be used within the limits stated in chapter 8 "Technical 
Data" and only as a drive unit for Brabender measuring heads designed for this drive 
unit. 
Brabender measuring instruments are high-precision instruments with a highly 
sensitive measuring system. Always handle the instrument with care in order to avoid 
damage to the instrument and to the measuring system. 
Improper application 
The Brabender instrument must NEVER be used for testing of or in connection with 
explosives - explosion hazard! 
Unauthorized modifications of the Brabender instrument may cause danger to the 
personnel or property damage and, moreover, result in loss of guarantee and are, 
therefore, forbidden. 
Sudden and rigid speed changes from low to high values on the drive unit can cause 
damage to or even destruction of the measuring head and are, therefore, forbidden. 
1516 4.2. Target group 
Mounting, modification, disposal 
Mounting, modification, and disposal of the Brabender instrument may only be 
carried out by technically skilled personnel with the corresponding qualifications. 
Electric work is only allowed to be carried out by qualified and skilled electricians in 
compliance with the rules for electrical engineering. 
Qperation. cleaning, maintenance 
Routine operation, cleaning during routine operation, and maintenance of the 
Brabender instrument may only be carried out by skilled personnel. 
The personnel in charge of operation, cleaning, and maintenance of the Brabender 
instrument must have been instructed by a skilled person. 
The persons in charge of operation, cleaning, and maintenance of the Brabender 
instrument must have the technical and computer skills enabling them to carry out 
the work described in chapter 11 "Setup and operation", chapter 12 "Cleaning", and 
chapter 13 "Maintenance" safely and without any risk to themselves or others. 
Repair 
Repair work on the Brabender instrument is only allowed to be executed by 
Brabender service technicians or by skilled personnel authorized for this work by 
Brabender. 
i,ietaStation 4EMetaStation 4E Safety 
4.3. Owner's duties 
4.3.1. General owner's duties 
The owner of the Brabender instrument must ensure that mounting, operation, 
maintenance of the instrument as well as repair and disposal, if applicable, are 
carried out exclusively by the personnel defined in chapter 4.2 "Target group". 
The owner of the Brabender instrument has to furnish proof of training of the 
personnel in charge of operation, cleaning, and maintenance of the Brabender 
instrument. 
Prior to instrument set-up, the owner of the Brabender instrument has to make sure 
of the proper condition, assembly, and mounting of the instrument according to the 
instructions given in chapter 9 "Mounting". 
The owner of the Brabender instrument must ensure that the operating personnel 
read and understood the instruction manual of the Brabender instrument as well as 
the test material safety data sheets of the respective producer prior to testing and 
processing any test material with the Brabender instrument andthat they will observe 
them. 
The measures listed in the respective test material safety data sheets of the producer 
in order to avoid any possible danger when handling the corresponding material 
must strictly be observed. 
174.4 Protective devices 
4.4.1. Emergency motor stop button 
4.4.1.1. Position and function of the emergency motor stop button 
The instrument is equipped with an emergency motor stop button (see fig. below). 
Pressing the emergency motor stop button immediately stops the motor of the 
instrument. 
0 Upon activation, the emergency motor stop button lights red. 
Fig. 1: Emergency motor stop button 
£LWARNING 
Risk of burns! 
The emergency motor stop button does not switch off the heating/cooling system. 
The measuring head still remains hot even after actuation of the emergency motor 
stop button. 
> Strictly observe the safety messages concerning hot surfaces in the 
corresponding chapters of the separate instruction manual of the measuring 
head! 
&WARNING 
Risk of severe injury! 
The emergency motor stop button helps to avoid potentially hazardous situations. 
> Never bridge the emergency motor stop button! 
> Never lock the emergency motor stop button mechanically! 
> Always keep the emergency motor stop button visible and easily accessible! 
MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E Safety 
4.4.1.2 Procedure after emergency motor stop 
WARNING 
Risk of severe injury, risk of property damage! 
Before restarting the system upon actuation of the emergency motor stop button 
> Make sure that the cause for the actuation of the emergency motor stop 
button has been eliminated! 
> Make sure that there is no risk to the personnel or to the machine when 
restarting the system! 
1. Slightly turn the emergency motor stop button until it pops out. 
2. Press the "Start" button on the drive unit in order to switch on the drive again. 
¢ The "Start" button lights up. 
The drive unit immediately starts rotating with the speed set last in the 
operating mode currently active. 
194.4.2 Emergency shut-off switch 
4.4.2.1 Position and function of the emergency shut-off switch 
The instrument is equipped with an emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch, see 
fig. below). Turning the emergency shut-off switch to position "O" immediately cuts 
off power supply to the instrument. 
Fig. 2: Emergency shut-off switch 
Position "0" OFF 1 Position "1" ON 2 
4.4.2.2. Procedure after actuation of the emergency shut-off switch 
.A WARNING 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Before restarting the system upon actuation of the emergency shut-off switch 
> Make sure that the cause for the actuation of the emergency shut-off switch 
has been eliminated! 
> Make sure that the system cannot be started before having reached full 
operating temperature! 
> Make sure that there is no risk to the personnel or to the machine when 
restarting the system! 
1. Turn the emergency shut-off switch to position "I" again. 
2. Wait until the system has reached full operating temperature again. 
3. Press the "Start" button in order to restart the drive unit. 
The "Start" button lights up. 
20 MetaStation 4E44.3 Safety device 
Brabender measuring heads are equipped with a non-contact magnetic safety 
device which triggers the control unit of the drive unit via a safety relay and prevents 
unintentional operation of the system when the measuring head has been drawn off 
or, with measuring mixers, is open. 
The drive unit can only be started in normal operation (that means through the 
software) if the measuring head has been mounted properly, the plug of the safety 
device has been connected to the connection "Safety Device" and, with measuring 
mixers, the mixer has been closed so that the safety switch gets a response from its 
counterpart. 
WARNING 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Danger of most serious injury by rotating parts when the measuring head is open 
or has been drawn off or not been mounted properly. 
In such cases, the safety device prevents operation of the instrument system. 
> Never bridge the safety device or put it out of function in any other way! 
2. — 
big 
Fig. 3: Safety connections 
1 Connection "2-hand control 3 Connection "Safety Device" for 
device" for measuring mixers safety device of the measuring 
2 Connection "Torque limit key" heads 
MetaStation 4E 2122 4.4.4 Automatic torque limitation 
Brabender measuring heads are equipped with an automatic torque limitation. For this 
purpose, the 8-pole cable coming out from under the gear cover hood of the measuring 
head must be connected to the connection "Torque limit key" on the front side of the 
drive unit. 
The drive unit now automatically recognizes the maximum admitted torque for the 
measuring head mounted. When this torque value is exceeded, the motor of the 
drive unit is turned off automatically (with measuring mixers) or the speed is reduced 
until the torque is within the admitted range again {with measuring extruders). 
Concerning the connections for the automatic torque limitation and the two-hand 
control device, please refer to the figure in chapter 4.4.3 "Safety device" 
4.4.5 Two-hand control device 
Brabender measuring mixers are equipped with a two-hand control device allowing to 
run themeasuring mixer at low speed(approx. 10 min-') when it is open (e.g. for cleaning 
purposes). 
For this purpose, the keys in the handles of the measuring mixer must be connected 
via the corresponding connection cables with the connections "2-Hand Safety 
Device" on the drive unit or, in case of operation of the measuring mixer on a docking 
station with the Plastograph or Lab-Station, on the drive unit and on the docking 
station. 
Concerning connection of the two-hand control device, please also refer to the 
separate instruction manual of the measuring mixer. 
4.4.6 Beeper 
The instrument is equipped with two acoustic alarms (beepers) indicating the 
following alarm situations: 
. Temperature controller alarm: intermittent sound 
e Software alarm: continuous sound 
Apart from that, the device is equipped with an internal beeper for announcing 
software alarms acoustically. 
MetaStation 4ESafety 
MetaStation 4E 4.5 Residual dangers 
4.5.1 Risk of injury when handling the measuring head 
“A WARNING 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage by a falling measuring head! 
When handling the measuring head, it may possibly fall down! 
Risk of serious injury, risk of property damage when the measuring head falls 
down! 
» Ensure to always wear work shoes with protective caps when working on 
the instrument system! 
> Grip the measuring head firmly or ensure safe handling otherwise as long 
as it has not been fixed firmly on the drive unit! 
4.5.2 Unexpected start after switch-off triggered by the inverter 
In case of continuous operation with high torque load, the motor may tend to 
overheat, causing automatic machine stop triggered by the inverter. 
After such machine stop, cooling down, and restart of the drive unit, the measuring 
head may start immediately when the "Start" key is pressed. 
WARNING 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Risk of serious injury, entanglement hazard by a sudden start of the drive unit! 
Risk of damage to or destruction of the measuring head by objects or tools within 
the measuring head when the drive unit suddenly starts! 
Before pressing the "Start" key 
> Make sure that there is no risk to the personnel or to the machine when 
restarting the device! 
> Make sure that there are no objects/tools within the measuring head which 
might damage the measuring head! 
2324 4.5.3 Danger by electricity 
&WARNING 
Danger to life, risk of injury due to voltage leading parts! 
In case of improper use of electric components, there is the risk of serious injuries 
or death by direct or indirect contact with live parts or connections! 
> 
> _ 
o 
4 
4 
4 
4 
a Work on electrical equipment is only to be carried out by authorized 
electricians! 
Do not run the machine with faulty electric connections or connections that 
are not ready for operation! 
Before connecting the instrument to the power supply, make sure that the 
line is equipped with a fault current circuit breaker (RCD), minimum type B 
[30 mA], and that the line voltage and frequency match the data given on 
the name plate! : 
Only connect the power plug to a correctly installed power outlet with 
protection contact (PE)! 
Avoid a tripping hazard when laying the power cable! Highlight any tripping 
positions! 
Keep access to the electric modules closed always. Access only by 
authorized personnel with the appropriate training and security briefing! 
Always pull the power plug before opening any access to the electric 
modules of the Brabender instrument! 
Always pull the power cable on the plug, never pull on the cable! 
Do_ not expose the power cable and the plug to humidity! 
MetaStation 4ESmall parts, 
accessories, and 
additional equipment 
may be packed in 
separate boxes or 
crates 
MetaStation 4E and 
5 Transport and Storage 
5.1. Packaging 
Packaging of the instrument, accessories, and additional equipment 
Brabender instruments are packed properly and professionally into wooden crates. 
Small parts and accessories are packed separately into cardboard boxes or bags 
contained in the crates. 
Additional equipment is packed either in the same crate as the instrument or in a 
separate crate, depending on the scope of the order. 
Shipping labels on the crate 
It is essential to observe the following labels on the outside of the crate(s): 
tt This side up! 
Y Fragile, handle with care! 
P| Keep dry! Transport and Storage 
5.2 Unpacking 
1. Upon arrival of the Brabender instrument, the owner of the Brabender 
instrument must inspect the shipping crate for any outside damage. 
2. If any damage is detected, notify the transport guide immediately. 
e Please also refer to chapter 5.4 "Checking for and notification of 
damage". 
3. Remove the cover of the crate(s). 
INOTIC! 
Parts of the instrument may be damaged! 
» When removing the lateral walls of the crate, take care of braces and 
supports within the crate as well as of bolt connections at the bottom of the 
crate, etc.! 
Carefully remove the lateral walls of the crate. 
4. 
26 Unpack the Brabender instrument with care. Take particular care for small 
parts or accessories within the packing material. 
8 Leave cover hoods and protective films on the Brabender instrument 
until mounting and commissioning, respectively. 
Inspect the packing material very carefully. 
0 Depending on the way of shipping and on circumstances which are 
beyond Brabender's influence, parts of the Brabender instrument may 
have loosened during transport despite proper and professional 
packing and may be hidden within the packing material. 
Dispose the packing material in an ecologically friendly way in compliance with 
the local regulations concerning disposal only after the owner of the 
Brabender instrument has found the scope of delivery to be complete. 
e For checking the scope of delivery, please refer to chapter 5.3 
"Checking the scope of delivery" 
MetaStation 4EIf damage is found, 
notify immediately: 
* the transport 
guide 
Brabender 
GmbH&Co. KG 
orin North 
America, C.W. 
Brabender 
Instruments, Inc. 
MetaStation 4E 5.3 
5.4 and 
Checking the scope of delivery 
The owner of the Brabender instrument must compare the scope of delivery 
with the shipping documents in a timely manner to the arrival of the Brabender 
instrument at the place of destination. 
If there is any discrepancy, notify Brabender GmbH & Co. KG or in North 
America, C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. immediately in writing. 
Any delayed claims made by the owner regarding missing equipment 
or spare parts will not be provided replacements free of charge. 
Checking for and notification of damage 
Upon arrival of the Brabender instrument, inspect the shipping crate(s) for 
outside damage. 
Immediately upon unpacking and checking of the scope of delivery, check the 
Brabender instrument as such for any signs of damage. 
If damage is found, notify the transport guide immediately. 
Provide a copy of the transport damage report to Brabender GmbH & Co. KG 
or in North America, C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. immediately. Also 
provide the place and time of the damage. 
G If the ownership of the equipment was transferred to the buyer at the 
same time of or prior to transportation, the buyer is liable for all 
damages incurred during transportation. The buyer or the receiver must 
observe the regulations of the insurance policy. 
If necessary, the average adjuster appointed by the claim opponent 
must be given the opportunity to inspect the shipment/the Brabender 
instrument. 
WARNING 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage by a defective instrument! 
A defective instrument can result in unknown hazards for humans and instrument! 
Never mount or use a defective instrument! 
27Transport and Storage 
28 5.5 Transport 
f'!-bVMM;-L.. Danger of serious injury or death, risk of property damage by overhead load 
and/or by the use of lifting devices with insufficient carrying capacity! 
> Always dismantle any mounted measuring head or parts that may come off 
and put them on a suitable base before transporting the Brabender 
instrument. 
> Before lifting the Brabender instrument, ensure sufficient carrying capacity 
of the lifting equipment! 
When moving the instrument with an overhead crane by means of ropes, chains, 
or belts: 
Do not stand underneath suspended loads! 
> Only use ropes, chains, or belts with sufficient carrying capacity! 
Only use ropes, chains, or belts in safe operating condition! 
> Fix the ropes, chains, or belts as near as possible to the gravity center of 
the instrument! 
When moving the instrument with a fork lift truck: 
> Put on or mount the lifting device as near as possible to the gravity center 
of the instrument! 
> Do not stand underneath suspended loads! 
WARNING 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage by a dropping instrument or by wrong 
posture when persons carry or move the instrument! 
> Always wear work shoes with protective caps when moving the Brabender 
instrument! 
When lifting and carrying the Brabender instrument, take care for a straight 
and upright posture! 
carriage in order to carry it to the desired place o' souriting! 
Do not carry the Brabender instrument over long dstances! > Lift the instrument with two persons (one on every side) onto a suitable 
MetaStation 4ETransport and Storage 
INOTIC. 
Parts of the instrument may be damaged! 
When mounting lifting devices, ropes, chains or belts, parts of the instrument can 
be damaged. 
Take care of > Fix lifting devices, ropes, chains, or belts so that no sensitive parts of the 
sensitive parts! instrument such as switches, levers, etc. are damaged! 
1. Move the unpacked instrument with extreme caution to the intended 
installation site. 
0 If included in the scope of delivery, the device can be moved on the 
mobile frame to the intended instatllation site. 
Risk of damage to the instrument! 
Avoid slamming on The instrument or parts of it may be damaged by slamming it on a surface. 
surfaces! > Put down the instrument carefully! 
MetaStation 4E 29Transport and Storage 
5.6 Storage 
14e14ft . Risk of property damage due to improper storage! 
Storage in humid or aggressive environment may cause corrosion and, in extreme 
cases, pitting corrosion. 
Dismantle the measuring head before storage. 
Clean and dry all surfaces of the machine thoroughly before storage. 
Put the cover hood from the accessory kit onto the motor shaft in the clutch. 
Cover the instrument with a cover hood or protective film in order to protect 
it against dust and humidity. 
Store the Brabender instrument and all parts thereof in dry and safe 
environment only. 
Put the Brabender instrument on a support which is at least 200 mm high, 
in order to protect the instrument from soil moisture. 
Arrange storage areas in a way that moisture can escape and periodical 
inspections are possible. vv 
FT 
VF 
V_VWVWY 
Ensure that the device stands firmly and safely and is protected against 
rolling or slipping away and tipping (if equipped, lock the break). 
Extreme temperature fluctuations or long exposure to direct sun may cause 
damage to the instrument or machine! 
> Do not expose the Brabender instrument or parts thereof to extreme 
temperature fluctuations or direct sun! 
For details concerning the admissible limit values of environment temperature 
and humidity, please refer to chapter 8 "Technical Data". 
30 MetaStation 4E"Front side" 
"Terminal side" 
"Right side" 
"Rear side" 
MetaStation 4E functional 
6 Components and functional features 
6.1 General description 
The device is a table-top drive unit for various Brabender measuring mixers, internal 
mixers and measuring extruders for recipe development, material testing and quality 
assurance in laboratories and goods incoming inspection. 
The scope of delivery of the device comprises: 
. Basic software MetaBridge MixMB or ExtMB for measuring mixers and measuring 
extruders, respectively 
The following components need to be ordered separately: 
. Measuring heads 
. Mobile frame (for operation with measuring heads mounted on a docking 
station) 
. further MetaBridge program modules (e.g. data correlation, user-specific 
evaluation methods, etc.) 
6.2. Designation of the sides of the instrument 
The side of the device with the mounting surface for the measuring heads and with 
the emergency motor stop button is referred to as "front side” in the following. 
The side of the device with the connection panel is referred to as “terminal side" in 
the following. 
The side opposite to the terminal side with the emergency shut-off switch is referred 
to as "right side" in the following. 
The side with the communication ports (HDMI, USB, LAN) is referred to as "rear 
side" in the following. 
3132 and functional features 
6.3 Product labels 
6.3.1 Name plate 
The name plate of the Brabender instrument contains the following information: 
Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG 6 Kulturstr. 49-51 D-47055 Duisburg Germany 
1 SE Phone:-49-203-7788-0 BB brabender@brabender.com 7 
2 Product j " 8 
3 Modet [__] SIN Yom i é 
4 v kw FAL st —— 
8 Tope os} Ct 
Fig. 4: Name plate (example) 
1 Instrument name 
2 ID no. 
3 Admissible line frequency 
4 Admissible voltage 
5 Electric drawing no. 
6 Manufacturer's name and address 
6.3.2. Further product labels 
Ichec dl Signification: 
B wl Tested tndeittrilal-s.afety a 
[60.044 20G6IA1:2009 Signification: 
Signification: 
Signification: 
Signification: 
Signification: 7 Serial number 
B Year of mounting 
9 Rated power 
10 Rated current 
11 CE sign 
12 Speed 
Instrument was checked in the 
Brabender workshop 
Instrument was checked for electrical 
safety in the Brabender workshop 
Read instruction manual before starting 
the Brabender instrument! 
Pull the power cord before opening the 
device! 
Danger electricity behind the door/under 
the cover hood! 
Danger, machine may start 
automatically! 
MetaStation 4E=, and 
6.4 Main components 
6.4.1. Front side, terminal side 
The following control elements and connections are located on the front side and on 
the terminal side of the instrument: 
Fig. 5: Control elements and connections on the front side and terminal side 
1 Connection panel 5 "Start" key 
2 Locking wheel for mounting 6 "Stop" key 
surface 7 Spiral tooth gear clutch 
3 Touchscreen with integrated 8 Mounting surface for measuring 
MetaBridge software head 
4 Emergency motor stop button 9 Mobile frame 
MetaStation 4E 33Components and functional features 
34 6.4.2 Right side, rear side 
The following control elements and ports are located on the right and rear side of the 
device: 
Fig. 6: Control elements and ports on the right and rear side 
yi Emergency shut-off switch 5 USB 2.0 (1 x) 
(isolator switch) 6 USB 2.0 (2 x) 
2 Equipotential bonding screw 7 LAN 1 
3 Power cord 8 LAN 2 
4 HOM/ 
6.5 Drive motor 
The drive motor is a maintenance-free servomotor carried in a pendulum bearing. 
Due to digital control, speed variations are almost excluded. 
6.6 Mounting surface 
The measuring heads can be mounted either directly on the mounting surface of the 
drive unit or on a mobile docking station. 
0 For measuring heads mounted on a docking station, the drive unit must be 
mounted on the mobile frame. 
Measuring heads mounted on the mounting surface of the drive unit are connected 
directly to the drive unit through the spiral tooth gear clutch. 
To connect measuring heads mounted on a docking station, the mounting surface 
of the drive unit can be unlocked with the locking wheel on the connection panel and 
drawn out. The docking station is then approached to the drive unit so that the 
mounting surface of the docking station fits into the corresponding recess and can 
be locked with the locking wheel. 
MetaStation 4E6.7 Spiral tooth gear clutch 
Brabender measuring heads built 08/2008 or later are connected to the drive unit 
through a spiral tooth gear clutch. 
6.8 Connection panel 
On the terminal side of the instrument, there is the connection panel with the 
following connections: 
e Control temperature connections zones no. 1 - 6 
Melt temperature 1 - 4 Heater cable connections zones no. 1 - 6 
Locking wheel for mounting surface Central compressed air input (max. 1.5 bars) 
Cooling air connections of the individual zones 
CAN-OUT connection with terminal resistor 
MetaStation 4E Fig. 7: Connection panel 
1 Connections for control 
thermocouples and heater cables 
of zones no. 1-6 
A Thermocouple connection 
B_ Heater cable connection 
2 Central cooling air input 
6.9 Mobile frame (option) 
AAR Cooling air to zones 
CAN-OUT connection 
Melt temperature 1 - 4 
Locking wheel for mounting 
surface 
The Brabender device can be mounted on a mobile light metal frame which is 
equipped with castors for easy transport of the device to the intended installation site 
and for locking it there. 
0 To level and secure the mobile frame in its final position. the adjustable feet 
should be screwed out.Components and functional features 
36 “s ~~ "MetaSiatiori 4E.Fig. 8: 
MetaStation 4E 7 MetaBridge software 
The Brabender MetaBridge has been factory installed on the internal PC of the 
Brabender instrument. The software is web-based, that means several authorized 
users can log in at the same time and monitor the readings live on their PC, tablet or 
smartphone from anywhere around the world via internet or network. The results can 
be evaluated, printed, and exported using the software. 
7.1. Starting/running down the internal PC 
7.1.1 Starting the internal PC 
1. For starting the internal PC, switch on the device on the main power switch 
on/off. 
After a few seconds, the log-in window shows up (see fig. below) where 
you can log in or create a new user account. 
Concerning log-in and log-in window, please also refer to chapter 11.1.1 
“MetaBridge log-in" 
iMletaBridge Metabrdge 
_ cats or 
Set in 
ES ee 
Log-in window Fig. 9: Log-in window (creating a 
(standard log-in) new user account) 
37software 
7.1.2 
8 
INOTIC. 
Risk of loss of data by running down the PC improperly! Running down the inte_rnal PC 
Running down the internal PC is only possible on site, that means directly on 
the device. 
Switching off the internal PC with the main power switch on the Brabender 
instrument, d_ata may be damaged or get lost. 
> 
» Always run down the internal PC properly before switching off the 
Brabender instrument. 
Do not switch off the Brabender instrument as long as the internal PC is still 
running! 
1. 
¢ 
Button "Shut down 
the device" 
38 For running down the internal PC and the touchscreen, if any, tap the "User" 
tile: 
The following selection window pops up: 
Please select an action.». 
Change password 
i;i | User administration 
{OI shutdown the device 
Close dialog} 
Fig. 10: Selection of user functions 
0 The buttons "Shut down the device" and "Restart the device" are only 
visible in local operation. In remote mode, i.e. on external terminals, 
these two functions are not available 
Tap the Button "Shut down the device". 
A message window "The device is shutting down" pops up. 
The device is shutting down 
Fig. 11: | Message "The device is shutting down" 
c:> After a few seconds, the internal PC is shut down and the touchscreen 
turns off. 
MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E MetaBridge software 
7.2 Start screen of the Brabender MetaBridge 
Upon log-in, the start screen of the Brabender MetaBridge appears (see fig. below 
as an example). 
0 Generally, the start screen contains some device-specific tiles in the upper 
part and some general tiles in the lower part. 
The arrangement of the tiles may vary depending on the terminal (PC, tablet, 
smartphone) and monitor size. 
Concerning the menus and functions of the individual tiles, please refer to the 
separate instruction manual of the corresponding software. 
0 If both the extruder software ExtMB and the mixer software MixMB have been 
installed and released, the start screen of the last active application will appear 
after a restart of the device. Tapping the tile "MultiDevice" allows switching 
from ExtMB to MixMB and vice versa. 
zz 
abpugerey lspuaderg 
Fig. 12: Start screen MixMB 
1 Device-specific tiles 2 General tiles 
2 hie 
g* y : 
cy | 
Fig. 13: Selection between ExtMB and MixMB 
3940 software 
M taStation E8 Technical Data 
Drive unit Motor: 
Speed range: 
Speed deviation: 
Oynamometer unit Torque measuring range: 
Ports HDMI: 
USS 2.0 (3 x): 
LAN 1 /LAN 2: 
Temperature control | 6 zones 
Current supply Electricity 
Power consumption: 
e Drive unit with measuring head 
without heating power: 
e Drive unit with measuring head 
with heating power: 
MetaStation 4E 4.2-kW servomotor 
0.2 - 185 min-', infinitely variable 
Max. + 1 % of full range through digital 
feedback 
0-200 Nm 
Automatic recognition of the max. torque 
for the connected measuring head 
Automatic stop or speed reduction when 
the max. admitted torque is exceeded 
For large monitor 
For connection of a USS stick, printer, 
mouse, keyboard, etc. 
Internet connection and/or connection of 
further devices via LAN (feeder, blown 
film take-off unit, winder, etc.) 
Inputs/outputs: 
e 4 x Melt temperature 
. 6 x Control temperature 
. 6 x Heating 
1 x Central cooling air input 
. 4x Cooling air output to the control 
zones 
e CAN-OUT 
3 x 400 V, 50/60 Hz + N + PE, 32 A 
10A 
up to 32 A, dep. on measuring head 
41Technical Data 
Dimensions and Dimensions (W x H x D) 
weight . without mobile frame: 700mmx 870mm x950mm 
. with mobile frame: 700mmx 1652 mm x 950mm 
Weight: 
e without mobile frame: 154 kg 
e with mobile frame: 174 kg 
Environmental e Storage: 
conditions Temperature - 20 °C-+55CC 
Relative humidity 5... 95% 
without condensation 
The above-named maximal values for 
temperature and relative humidity must 
not occur simultaneously. 
° Operation: 
Temperature +5CC-+40 CC 
Relative humidity 5... 85% 
without condensation 
The above-named maximal values for 
temperature and relative humidity must 
not occur simultaneously. 
8 The dimensions stated above usually include necessary equipment such as 
power cord, heating/cooling hoses etc. in addition to the pure instrument 
dimensions. 
8.1. Noise measurement 
The noise measurement was run under normal operating conditions over the entire 
speed range of the instrument. The measurement was carried out at a distance of 
1 meter and a height of 1.6 meters. 
The measured equivalent continuous sound pressure level is 
Leq <70 dB(A) 
42 MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E Mounting 
9 Mounting 
9.1 Safety notes concerning mounting 
-& CAUTION 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Improper mounting may cause danger of injury to the personnel and risk of 
damage to the instrument. 
> 
9.2 All mounting work on the Brabender instrument may only be carried out with 
care by technically skilled personnel! 
Requirements to the place of mounting 
Mount the Brabender instrument in a closed room where it is protected from 
weather factors. 
Do not mount the Brabender instrument near heat sources (heating, presses, 
etc.). 
The intended base for mounting the instrument must be 
even and plane 
clean 
strong enough to carry the instrument 
Make sure that the Brabender instrument is protected against vibration (make 
sure the instrument is stable!). 
The connection and adaptation points for power supply to the instrument must 
be as near as possible to the mounting place of the instrument. 
Concerning power supply data, please refer to chapter 8 "Technical 
Data" 
4344 9.3. Setup and assembly 
9.3.1. Leveling the instrument 
A CAUTION 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
The instrument is heavy! Danger of injury and risk of damage to the instrument 
when lifting or moving the instrument. 
> Always lift or move the instrument with a suitable lifting device or with two 
or more persons! 
1. Make sure to remove all covering hoods and protective films. 
2. By means of a suitable lifting device or with two or more persons, place the 
instrument onto a sturdy, vibration-free working surface. 
3. Put a bubble level onto the instrument in order to check whether it is leveled 
exactly horizontally. 
4. If this is not the case, slightly move the device or the mobile frame, if equipped, 
or compensate for depressions in the mounting surface by placing e.g. thin 
metal shims under the feet until the device is exactly horizontal. 
5. Make sure that the device stands firmly and safely. 
MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E 9.3.2 Removing the shipping fixture Fon Loosen the locknuts on the shipping fixture. 
Unscrew the threaded rod from the clutch. 
Unscrew the two knurled nuts on the shipping fixture. 
Remove the shipping fixture. 
0] Keep all parts of the shipping fixture for a possible future shipment of 
the device (for example for repair purposes). 
Instead of the threaded rod, turn the screw from the accessory kit into the 
central bore of the clutch in order to fix the clutch half on the driving shaft. 
Screw the knurled nuts onto the stud bolts on the mounting surface again. 
If you do not want to mount a measuring head to the drive unit immediately, 
put the black cover hood from the accessory kit onto the motor shaft of the 
clutch. 
Fig. 14: Shipping fixture 
1 Clutch of the drive unit 4 Shipping fixture 
2 Threaded rod 5 Knurled nuts 
3 Lock nuts 
459.4 Power supply connection 
AWARNING 
Danger to life, danger of serious injuries due to electrocution! 
Improper grid connection may lead to overvoltage and cable fire and can cause 
damage to the instrument! In case of a damaged cable and/or power plug, live 
parts may be exposed! 
Danger of serious injury or death due to direct or indirect contact with live parts or 
connections! 
> Before connecting the instrument to the power supply, make sure that the 
line is equipped with a fault current circuit breaker (RCD), minimum type B 
[30 mA], and that the line voltage and frequency match data given on the 
name plate! 
Switch off the instrument before connecting it to the power supply! 
Make sure that the power cable and plug are in a perfect and technically 
safe condition and are not damaged! 
Only connect the Brabender instrument to a socket with a protective earth 
contact (PE)! vive 
WW 
Avoid a tripping hazard when laying the power ca_ble! Highlight any tripping 
positions! 
1. Make sure that the instrument has been switched off. 
2. Connect the power cable of the instrument to a socket with a protective earth 
contact (PE). 
46 MetaStation 4EetaStation 4E 9.5 Mounting of measuring heads 
&WARNING 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Danger of serious injuries and entanglement hazard by a measuring head 
suddenly starting when mounting the measuring head while the drive unit is on. 
Danger of burns and of damage to the heaters due to uncontrolled heating of the 
measuring head when mounting the measuring head to a live drive unit. 
> Switch off the drive unit before mounting or dismantling the measuring 
head! 
> Never mount or dismantle the measuring head when the drive unitis on! 
-&CAUTION 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
The measuring head may overturn. Danger of injury, risk of damage to the 
measuring head when ii overturns or falls down. 
> Secure the measuring head with your hands as long as it has not yet been 
fixed tightly to the drive unit! 
> Ensure to always wear work shoes with protective caps when working on 
the instrument system! 
e Concerning mounting of the different measuring heads, please refer to the 
corresponding separate instruction manual of the measuring head and of the 
docking station, if equipped, and to the mounting instructions of the adapters, 
if required. 
9.5.1. Mounting of measuring heads up to YoM 08/2008 
For mounting Brabender measuring heads up to model 08/2008, various adapters 
may be required, depending on the measuring head and the year of mounting (e.g. 
clutch adapter, encoder box for instrument recognition and torque limitation, adapter 
for safety device). 
0 Please contact the Brabender Service in such case. 
4748 9.5.2 Preparations for mounting a measuring mixer 
9.5.2.1 Mounting the mixer supporting fork 
The mixer supporting fork (ID no. 6 90 199) serves for safe deposition of the 
mixer bowl of series 30/50 measuring mixers. 
1. Unscrew the two hexagon nuts M10 of the stud bolts on the underside of the 
mounting surface of the drive unit and remove them with their washers. 
2. Mount the mixer supporting fork from below onto the stud bolts and screw 
them from below to the underside of the mounting surface using the two 
hexagon nuts M10 and the washers. 
Fig. 15: | Mounting the mixer supporting fork 
1 Hexagon nuts M10 
MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E 9.5.2.2. Mounting the mixer support (additional equipment) 
8 The mixer support (additional equipment, ID no. 6 19 150) serves for safe 
deposition of both the mixer front plate and the bowl of series 30/50 measuring 
mixers. It is equipped with a drawer for the disposal of product from the 
measuring mixer. 
1. If screwed in, unscrew the four MS Allen screws on the underside of the 
mounting surface of the drive unit. 
Fig. 16: Underside of the mounting surface 
1 M65 Allen screws 
2. Use the four Allen screws to fix the mixer support to the underside of the 
mounting surface of the drive unit. 
0 The nut of the left stud bolt must fit into the corresponding recess of the 
mixer support (see fig. below, green arrow). 
Fig. 17: Mounting the mixer support 
1 Allen screws for fixing the 
mixer support 
4950 9.5.3. CAN connection 
INOTIC 
Risk of property damage! 
Live connection or disconnection of CAN bus cables may cause short-circuit and, 
as a consequence, cause damage or destruction of CAN bus modules. 
> 
» Before connecting the CAN bus cable, make sure that the CAN bus cable and 
plug are in an operationally safe condition (visual check)! 
Before connecting or disconnecting the CAN bus cable, make sure that the 
isolator or power switches of all instruments in the system are position "O" 
(OFF)! 
9.5.3.1. CAN connection of measuring mixers 
8 Measuring mixers are no CAN modules and do not have any CAN connection 
of their own. 
If the drive unit is the only CAN module (this is the standard case with 
measuring mixers without docking station): 
Plug the terminal resistor onto the connection CAN-OUT on the connection 
panel of the drive unit and fix it with the two lateral screws. 
Incase of downstream CAN modules (e.g. docking station or a conductivity meter): 
> Use the CAN connection cable to connect the connection CAN-OUT of 
the drive unit to the connection CAN-IN of the subsequent CAN module. 
> Plug the terminal resistor onto the connection CAN-OUT of the last CAN 
module inthe system and fix it with the two lateral screws. 
ifltit ES ee 
Aes vet 
1:tit it —_ @ 
Fig. 18: | Connection panel 
1 Connection CAN-OUT 
MetaStation 4EExamples of a CAN connection of measuring mixers: 
Fig. 19: Connection of CAN modules (examples) 
1 Terminal resistor 
9.5.3.2. CAN connection of measuring extruders 
0 Measuring extruders are no CAN modules and do not have any CAN 
connection of their own. The CAN connection is effected through the pressure 
transducers mounted in the measuring extruder and through the controller of 
a feeder, if equipped. 
Concerning the CAN connection of measuring extruders, please also refer to 
the separate instruction manual of the respective measuring extruder. 
1. If the terminal resistor has been plugged onto the connection CAN-OUT on 
the connection panel of the drive unit, unlock and disconnect it. 
2. Operation without docking station: 
> Use the CAN connection cable to connect the connection CAN-OUT of 
the drive unit to the connection CAN-IN of the subsequent CAN module 
(feeder or the first pressure transducer in the measuring extruder). 
Operation with docking station: 
> Use the CAN connection cable to connect the connection CAN-OUT of 
the drive unit to the connection CAN-IN of the docking station. 
> Connect the connection CAN-OUT of the docking station to the 
connection CAN-IN of the subsequent CAN module fleeder or the first 
pressure transducer in the measuring extruder). 
3, Connect any further CAN modules (further pressure transducers and/or 
downstream modules) likewise via the CAN connection cable. 
Plug the terminal resistor onto the connection CAN-OUT of the last CAN 
module in the system and fix it with the two lateral screws. & 
MetaSlation 4E 51Examples of a CAN connection of measuring extruders: 
Fig. 20: Connection of CAN modules (examples) 
1 Terminal resistor 
52 MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E 10 Start-up 
10.1 Safety notes concerning start-up 
-A.CAUTION 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Improper start-up of the instrument involves the danger of injury to the personnel 
and the risk of damage to the instrument. 
> Commissioning of the Brabender instrument may only be performed by 
qualified operating personnel! 
e For starting up the measuring system, please also refer to the separate 
10.2 instruction manuals of all other system components and of the software! 
Preparations, switching on 
Check all connections and fittings for proper seat and tightness. 
Make sure that the device stands firmly and safely. 
Make sure for correct CAN connection. Ensure that the terminal resistor has 
been plugged onto the CAN-OUT connection of the last CAN module in the 
CAN bus. 
Make sure that the 12-pole plug of the safety device of the measuring head 
has been connected properly to the connection "Safety Device" on the drive 
unit. 
Make sure that the 8-pole plug of the automatic torque limitation of the 
measuring head has been connected properly to the connection "Torque limit 
key" of the drive unit. 
For operation with a measuring mixer: 
Make sure that thetwo cables of the 2-hand control device of the measuring mixer 
have been connected properly tothe connections "2-Hand Safety Device". 
Make sure that all emergency motor stop buttons and emergency shut-off 
switches are free and easily accessible. 
If not yet done, connect the power cord of the instrument to the power supply. 
If not yet done, switch on the instrument. 
5310.3 Presettings in the MetaBridge software at initial start-up 
When the internal PC is started for the first time, some basic presettings need to be 
made once before the measuring program as such can be started. 
1. If not yet done, switch the Brabender device on. 
¢ The internal PC boots. On the touchscreen or on the external terminal, 
the following windows appear one after the other: : : 
St 
i=} 
pm -Vint 
Ei 
| Ey] oe 
5 3 = 3 ‘Sepee rebar ate oc gHerzlich Willkomurgn = = 
Fig. 21: | Welcome screen 
MetaBriage rabender” 
Fig. 22: _ Title screen 
MetaStation 4E4E 3. Please selEcta teng 
Fig. 23: Language selection 
Tap the desired language. 
9 The language can be changed at any time in the program. 
The following window appears. 
Data protection declaration 
Tsoaia podection ded.waton inrctaunesIntinam tt tnd = CRE rk gn {1S pW dor hate ALY is oy ih ves 9.41088 SuRbuN 
cimbef_— in. Po ry eNl ae St) ana. Gie eM 
Access Data / Sen,erLogFiles 
rd Ht, (fPlh,t(onn nfserver Jerman Fedffl!l O.ta (Me), 
1af:C, Witeiind time-<Af d-c O:47S11 blandeliR&. MIU'eatD=‘I thf il ype and in:nkie. the ‘opetilillQ ern pata ounsen0y, oe eet P Ratt 
Fig. 24: Privacy statement 
Read the privacy statement completely, then tap "Accept" 
The following window appears: 
Please select the current date 
< June2016 > 
Su. Mo Tu We Th Fr Sa 
2 3 4 
5 6 7 8 9 10 Il 
12 13 14 LULLED 1s 
19 20 21 22 23 24 25: 
26 27 28 29 30 
= =< Fig. 25: Setting the date 
55Start-up 
4. 
5. 
[ons > Set the current date, then tap "Next". 
The following window appears: 
Please select the current time 
mnt uate Heel 
03 02 15 
04 03, 16 AM 
05 04 17 PM 
06 05 18 
07 06 19 
<= = Fig. 26: Setting the time 
Set the current time, then tap "Next" 
The following window appears: 
Create an administrator account 
t pagsword na 
Pie ‘eieb: tp;- J 
secret Ut$We:- 
Lodi wo. _s -tal:sw! J 
Fig. 27: Creating an administrator account 
Fillin this window completely, then tap "Finish". 
0 The secret question and answer are needed in case you forgot your 
password for logging in again in your account and setting a new 
password. 
The presettings for initial startup are now completed. The start screen 
of the Brabender MetaBridge appears. 
If a software was purchased separately, you still need to activate the license 
number and to install the MetaStation in the software. 
¢ Upon license activation, installation of the device and log-in, the start 
screen of the respective device appears. 
If applicable, make further:presettings (language, units, etc.) on the tile 
"Options" 
MetaStation 4ECheck function of all 
safety devices every 
day before starting 
work! 
MetaStation 4E Start-up 
10.4 Functional check of the safety devices 
0 Make a functional check of all safety devices every day before starting work! 
10.4.1 Safety switch and two-hand control device 
For checking the safety device and the two-hand control device of the 
measuring head (two-hand control device only with measuring mixers), please 
refer to the separate instruction manual of the measuring head. 
10.4.2 Emergency motor stop button 
1. If not yet done, turn on the device. 
c:> The internal PC initiates and, after a few seconds, the start screen 
appears. 
2. Press the "Start" key. 
c:> The "Start" key lights up. 
3. Press down the emergency motor stop button with your hand. 
c:> | The emergency motor stop button lights up. 
c:> The "Start" key must go off. 
4. Press the "Start" key. 
c> The "Start" key must not light up again, that means that the instrument 
must not start. 
0 If the "Start" key does not go off, the emergency motor stop button may be 
defective. 
A CAUTION 
Risk of injury in case of a defective emergency motor stop button! 
If the emergency motor stop button is defective, the drive motor cannot be stopped 
quickly in case of emergency - risk of injury. 
If the emergency motor stop button is defective: 
> Immediately switch off the instrument! 
> Inform the Brabender-Service dept. (see chapter 2 "Contact")! 
> Do not start-up the instrument! 
5. To restart the device, slightly turn the emergency motor stop button until it 
pops out. 
Wait at least 3 s in order to reactivate the safety relay. 
Press the "Start" key in order to reactivate the drive unit. 
c:> The "Start" key lights up again. 
5710.4.3 Emergency shut-off switch 
1. When the device is on, turn the emergency shut-off switch counter-clockwise 
from position "I" to position "O" 
Fig. 28: | Emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) 
Turning the emergency shut-off switch to position "O" must immediately 
cut off power supply to the machine system, that means all displays 
must go off and the motor, if running, must stop immediately. 
0 If the machine system is not separated immediately and completely 
from power supply upon actuation of the emergency shut-off switch, the 
emergency shut-off switch may be defective. 
-A.CAUTION 
Risk of injury in case of a defective emergency shut-off switch! 
If the emergency shut-off switch is defective, the drive motor cannot be stopped 
quickly in case of emergency - risk of injury. 
If the emergency shut-off switch is defective: 
> Immediately cut off power supply to the instrument! 
> Inform the Brabender Service dept. (see chapter 2 "Contact")! 
> Do not start up the instrument! 
2. To restart the device upon activation of the emergency shut-off switch, turn 
the emergency shut-off switch back to position "I". 
¢ The MetaBridge software restarts. 
3. Press the "Start" key in order to reactivate the drive unit. 
¢ The "Start" key lights up again. 
The system can now be taken into operation. 
e For starting, see chapter 11 "Setup and operation". 
58 MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E Setup and operation 
11Setup and operation 
For running and setting up the entire measuring system it is imperative to read 
the instruction manuals of all other system components and of the software! 
11.1 Daily work before start of operation 
11.1.1 MetaBridge log-in 
1. Switch on the device. 
q The internal computer starts automatically. 
rz> After a few seconds, the log-in window appears on the touchscreen or 
terminal: 
ivietaBflage 
ete 
Fig. 29: Log-in window 
2. Log in as follows: 
If you already have an account, enter your user name and password and tap 
"Login". 
r:> The start screen appears. 
You do not have an account yet haben, tap the text "No account? Sign up 
now." under the field "Log in" 
9 The log-in window appears: 
iMetaBriage 
Fig. 30: Log-In window 
Fill in all entry fields of this window, then tap "Create". 
r> The log-in window appears. 
Enter your user name and password and tap "Log in". 
The start screen appears. 
5960 11.2 Daily work before start of operation 
10. If not yet done, turn on the Brabender device. 
Check the function of the safety devices acc. to chapter 10.4 "Functional 
check of the safety devices". 
Make sure that the interior of the measuring head is perfectly clean. 
Make sure that the mixer blades and extruder screw(s), respectively, have 
been locked properly. 
Make sure that all control thermocouples have been mounted properly in the 
respective heating zones. 
8 The springs of the control thermocouples must have a slight tension 
when locked. 
Make sure that all control thermocouples have been connected properly to the 
temperature controller of the respective zone. 
Make sure that all heater cables and heating/cooling hoses, respectively, have 
been connected properly and that the hoses, if equipped, are tight. 
Prepare the loading chute/feeder of the measuring head. 
@ See chapter "Setup and operation" of the separate instruction manual 
of the measuring head. 
For measuring extruders (if mounted): 
Open cooling water supply to the feed zone. 
Start the Brabender measuring program. 
MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E 11.3 Running a measurement 
11.3.1 General remarks 
-AWARNING 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Depending on the measuring head connected, there may be further dangerous 
situations to the personnel and to the machine system in addition to those 
mentioned in the present instruction manual! 
> It is imperative to read, understand and observe the safety instructions in 
the separate instruction manual of the measuring head as well! 
WARNING 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage due to automatic start triggered by 
the program! 
Some software programs offer the possibility of programming speed profiles. In 
this context, the machine system, controlled by the software, may start 
automatically from standstill position. 
Risk of injuriy, risk of damage to or destruction of the machine system! 
> Never put your hands into the open measuring head or insert any tools 
when the drive unit is live! 
> Always pull the power plug of the drive unit before undertaking any 
manipulations on the open measuring head! 
WARNING 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
When the feed opening of the measuring head is open, rotating parts may be open! 
When several persons work simultaneously on the device, the drive unit may be 
started unintentionally while another person is still working on the measuring head 
and rotating parts are open! 
Danger of most serious injuries, entanglement hazard! Risk of damage to or 
destruction of the measuring head by tools! 
Never have two or more persons work simultaneously on the device! 
> Never put your hands into the feed opening when the drive unit is on! 
> Never work on the device with open long hair or with loose garments (tie, 
scarf, shawl or the like) or jewelry! 
6162 -A.WARNING 
Danger of severe burns due to hot surfaces, risk of property damage! 
The surfaces of parts of the machine system can reach extremely high temperatures 
during operation and remain very hot even a long time after shutdown! 
Danger of severe burns, danger of damage to the contact surfaces due to hot 
machine parts! 
» Vv 
vvVv Always wear suitable protective gloves when working on the machine system! 
Always ensure there is a sufficient distance for unprotected parts of your body 
and Cables, pipelines and hose lines. Keep them away from hot surfaces! 
Do not use the machine as a storage surface! 
Deposit hot machine parts on a suitable, heat-resistant base only! 
Set up clear warning signs beside the hot machine parts in order to avoid 
unintentional touching by third persons! 
Guide/dispose hot product only in appropriate, heat-resistant containers! 
Before starting a test with the machine system, familiarize yourself with the 
functions and menus of the software! 
For running a measurement, please follow the instructions in the 
corresponding chapters of the separate instruction manuals of the measuring 
head, of the Brabender measuring program and of the additional equipment, 
if equipped. 
MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E 12 Cleaning 
0 The instrument does not need any special cleaning. In order to provide for 
proper operation of the entire system, it must, however, always be kept clean 
and dry. 
For cleaning the measuring head, please refer to the separate instruction 
manual of the measuring head. 
6364 iMietaStation 4EMetaStation 4E 13 Maintenance 
13.1 Safety notes concerning maintenance 
INOTIC: 
Risk of property damage due to improper maintenance! 
> Maintenance work on the Brabender instrument is only to be carried out by 
instructed personnel! 
0 To ensure a correct maintenance of the Brabender instrument, the Brabender 
Service offers a maintenance contract to be purchased. 
Please contact the Brabender Service department to do so (see chapter 2 
"Contact"). 
13.2 Bearings 
The instrument has got a lifetime lubrication. It is not necessary to exchange any 
lubricants. 
0 Nevertheless, even bearings with lifetime lubrication are subject to aging. The 
service life of the motor and gear bearings under normal operating conditions 
is about 15,000 operating hours. 
Risk of property damage due to leakage or wear! 
Leaks on the bearings may cause damage to the bearings! Wear on the bearings 
causes damage to the machine! 
> If any leakage is detected, switch off the device immediately and do not 
start it again! 
> Immediately inform the Brabender Service dept. (see chapter 2 "Contact")! 
> Have the bearings checked every 15,000 operating hours at the latest by a 
Brabender service technician! 
65Maintenance 
66 13.3 Fan(s) 
13.3.1 Position, function 
On the terminal side of the device, two fans are mounted behind the ventilation grille 
for aeration of the motor and the electronics. Fresh air from outside is taken in 
through the ventilation grille on the right side which is blown out again by the fans 
through the ventilation grille on the terminal side (see fig. below). 
The filter mats behind the two ventilation grilles need to be checked for contamination 
in regular time intervals in order to provide for sufficient aeration of the motor and 
the electronics. 
Risk of property damage due to insufficient motor ventilation! 
A contaminated filter mat may affect ventilation of the electrics and of the motor! 
Insufficient ventilation of the electrics and of the motor may cause overheating 
and, as a consequence, damage to the electrics and motor shut-off! 
> Depending on the ambient conditions, check function of the fan(s) in regular 
time intervals, but not later than once per month! 
> Clean the filter mat of the air supply ventilation grille at least once per month 
and replace it, if necessary! 
> In case of a defective fan, immediately shut off the device and do not start 
it again! 
Position of fifter fan and ventilation grilles = 
I Ventilation grille with 2 air 2 Air supply ventilation grille 
exhaust filter fans 
MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E Maintenance 
13.3.2 Checking the filter mat 
1. 
2. 
_ Ls) Press onto the pressure point(s) of the ventilation grille in order to release it. 
Dismantle the ventilation grille laterally. | INU Me) EN wi HA UN 
Fig. 32: Dismantling the ventilation grille (example) 
1 Ventilation grille 3 Filter mat 
2 Pressure point 
Remove the filter mat from the ventilation grille. 
In case of normal contamination: 
> Carefully rinse the filter mat with clear water. If necessary, add some 
mild detergent. 
> Have the filter mat dry completely. 
In case of strong contamination: 
> Replace the filter mat. 
Visually check the fan(s) behind the ventilation grille on the terminal side for 
contamination. 
In case of visible contamination, clean the fan(s) with a vacuum cleaner and 
a paintbrush. 
Put the cleaned or new filter mat onto the ventilation grille. 
Remount the ventilation grille and press to lock it. 
Check the function of the fan(s) by means of a thin sheet of paper: 
> Hold the paper close to the air supply grille - the paper must be sucked 
towards the grille and must not fall down. 
0 If there is no air current, the respective fan may be defective. In this 
case, please contact the Brabender Service department (see chapter 2 
"Contact"). 
67Maintenance 
68 MetaStution 4EMetaStation 4E Trouble-shooting 
14 Trouble-shooting 
This chapter lists some possible troubles which may occur during operation of the 
Brabender instrument and measures to be taken to eliminate these troubles. 
£L£WARNING 
Danger to life from electric shock, risk of damage to the instrument! 
Improper maintenance may damage or destruct the instrument. Improper handling 
of electric components implies danger to life or the risk of most serious injuries by 
direct or indirect contact to live parts or contacts! 
> Work on electrical equipment is only to be carried out by authorized 
electricians! 
> Maintenance work exceeding the work described in the present instruction 
manual or requiring opening of the instrument is only to be carried out by a 
Brabender service technician! 
> Before opening the instrument or doing any other electric work, always 
disconnect the power plug! 
Danger of severe burns dueto hot surfaces, risk of property damage! 
The surfaces of parts of the machine system can reach extremely high temperatures 
during operation and remain very hot even a long time after shutdown! 
Danger of severe burns, danger of damage to the contact surfaces due to hot 
machine parts! 
> Always wear suitable protective gloves when working on the machine system! 
Always ensure there is a sufficient distance for unprotected parts of your body 
and cables, pipelines and hose lines. Keep them away from hot surfaces! 
Do not use the machine as a storage surface! 
Deposit hot machine parts on a suitable, heat-resistant base only! 
Set up clear warning signs beside the hot machine parts in order to avoid 
unintentional touching by third persons! 
iv Vv_VvVv Ww 
Guide/dispose hot product only in appropriate, heat-resistant containers! No. |Error 
1 
70 Device cannot 
be started |Cause/measure 
Cause: 
Wrong supply voltage 
No power supply 
Emergency motor stop button activated (lights) 
Emergency shut-off switch (isolator switch) in position "O" 
CAN cable not properly connected (CAN-IN and CAN-OUT and/or no terminal 
resistor plugged onto CAN-OUT connection) 
Safety switch of the measuring head not connected 
Motor overheated 
Fuse released or defective 
Inverter error 
Measures: 
1. 
2. Check whether the supply voltage matches the data on the name plate. 
Check whether the power plug of the machine has been connected properly 
to a power supply outlet with protection contact. 
Ensure that the isolator switch is in position "I". 
Check whether the emergency motor stop button has been actuated (pressed 
down) by drawing the emergency motor stop button upwards. 
0 The emergency motor stop button lights when actuated (pressed down). 
Check whether the CAN connection cables have been connected properly to 
the connections CAN-IN and CAN-OUT of all CAN modules or, if the device 
MetaStation-4E is the last CAN module in the system, check whether the 
terminal resistance has been plugged onto the connection CAN-OUT of the 
device (see also chapter 9.5.3 "CAN connection"). 
Check whether the cable of the safety device of the measuring head has been 
connected properly to the connection "Safety Device" on the front side of the 
instrument. 
Check whether the cable of the automatic torque limitation of the measuring 
head has been connected properly to the connection "Torque limit key". 
In case of operation with a measuring mixer: 
Make sure that the two plugs of the two-hand control device have been 
connected properly to the corresponding connections "2-Hand Safety Device" 
MetaStation 4ENo. .. Error 
[1] [continued] 
MetaStation 4E , Cause/measure 
&WARNING 
Danger to life, risk of injury due to voltage leading parts! 
When access to the electric modules is open and the isolator switch is on, live 
parts are open! 
> Work on electrical equipment is only to becarried out by authorized electricians! 
Never touch any modules inside the instrument as long as the instrument 
is switched on! 
As_ long as power supply to the instrument is on, functional checks of electric 
or electronic modules inside the instrument are only to be carried out 
visually and only by authorized electricians! 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. Dismantle the ventilation grille and the filter mat on the right side in order to 
check the electric components inside. 
e See chapter 13.3.2 "Checking the filter mat". 
Unscrew the fixing screws of the protective grille and remove it. 
¢ The HBM load cell, the safety relay, the power pack ant the overload 
release are now visible. 
4 
5 
6 
{ 
Fig. 33: Electric modules behind the ventilation grille 
1 HBM load cell 4 Power pack 
2 LED on the HBM load cell 5 LED "DC ok" on the power pack 
3 Safety relay 6 Overload release 
Check the HBM load cell: The LED in the left top must light in yellow. 
Check the power pack: The LED "DC ok" must light in green (see fig. above). 
Check the overload release: The switches must show to the top. 
Check the safety relay: Depending on the instrument state, the LEDs on the 
safety relay must light as shown in the following schematics. 
==on | == Off 
0 If the LEDs on the safety relay do not light as shown in the following 
schematics, please contact the Brabender Service (see chapter 2 
"Contact"). 
71Trouble-shooting 
Nano ] Cause/measure 
[1] [continued] 
Status with measuring mixer type 50 EHT: 
. Power plug of the drive unit connected 
. Isolator switch in position "I" 
. Emergency motor stop button NOT pressed (button does not light) 
. "Start" key pressed (the "Start" key lights) 
. Connection "Safety Device" plugged in 
. Connection "Torque limit key" plugged in 
. Connection "2-Hand Safety Device" plugged in 
Fig. 34: Correct status display on the safety relay with meas. mixer type 50 EHT 
1 X11 7 x13 
2 x12 8 X14 
3 (X12)IN13 14 P1 P2 9 RUN (must flash in yellow) 
4. OUTK1 K2 01 02 10 INO1 02 03 04 (X14) 
(X22) (X21) 11 INOS 06 07 08 (X23) 
5 X21 12 INO9 10 11 12(X24) 
6 X22 13° X23 
14 X24 
72 MetaStation 4ENo. | Error 
{1]  {continued] 
MetaStation 4E Cause/measure 
Status with measuring extruder 19/25 D: 
. Power plug of the drive unit connected 
. Isolator switch in position "I" 
. Emergency motor stop button NOT pressed (button does not light) 
. "Start" key pressed (the "Start" key lights) 
. Connection "Safety Device" plugged in 
. Connection "Torque limit key" plugged in 
I ' 7 
2 
10 
11 
12 
5 
6 14 
Fig. 35: Correct status display on the safety relay with meas. extruder 19/25 D 
1 x11 7 X13 
2 x12 8 x14 
3 (X12)IN 13 14 P1 P2 g RUN (must flash in yellow) 
4 OUTK1 K2 01 02 10 INO1 02 03 04 (X14) 
(X22) (X21) 11 IN 05 06 07 08 (X23) 
5 X21 12. INO9 10 11 12 (X24) 
6 X22 13 X23 
14. X24 
73Trouble-shooting 
No. Error | cause/measure 
[1] [continued] 
15. | Check the over-/undervoltage relay: The green one of the three status LEDs 
must light. 
0 Glowing ofthe left one of the two red LEDs ("<U") indicates low voltage, 
glowing of the right one of the two red LEDs (">U") indicates high 
voltage. 
Fig. 36: | Over-lundervoltage relay 
1 Over-lundervoltage relay 2 Status LEDs 
16. If all of these checks were positive, remount the protective grille and fix ii with 
the four screws. 
17. _Remount the ventilation grille with the filter mat and press to lock it. 
18. Unscrew and remove the four screws fixing the cover of the device on the rear 
side in order to get access to further electric and electronic modules. 
A CAUTION 
Danger of injury by falling cover! 
The cover is just clamped on the front side and cannot be secured when open. 
Danger of injury, risk of property damage by a falling cover! 
Use both of your hands to open the cover! 
> Do not open the cover too far in order to prevent it from tipping over and 
falling down! 
> Grip the cover with both of your hands when opening it and holding it open 
in order to prevent it from slipping off and falling down! 
74 MetaStation 4ENo. lError | Cause/measure 
[1] [continued] 
19. Grip the cover with both of your hands and tilt it open with care. 
0 There is a recess on the rear side of the cover to facilitate opening. 
The inverter and other electric and electronic modules are now visible 
(see fig. below). 
rug. Sf. crecuornic moauies unaer wie Cover 
1 CAN-Bus power pack (24 VJ 4 Inverter 
2 Power pack internal PC (5 V) 5 USB hub 
3 Temperature controller - 6 Melt temperature module 
20. Check the inverter: In case of an error, the inverter display shows a clear text 
error message and an error code. 
0 In case of an error, please contact the Brabender Service department 
and state this error code. 
e Please also refer to the separate instruction manual of the inverter. 
21. Check the two power packs of the CAN bus (left, 24 V) and of the internal PC 
(right, 5 V): The LEDs "DC ok" must light in green on both power packs. 
22. Check the temperature controller module: The LED "Power" must light in 
yellow, the LEDs "Run" and "Bus" must flash in yellow. 
23. Check the melt temperature module: The LED "ON CAN" must light in green. 
24. Check the USB hub prufen: The LED "PWR" must light in green. 
MetaStation 4E 7576 MetaStatiOll 4EaStation 4E epair 
15 Repair 
A WARNING 
Risk of injury, risk of property damage! 
Improper repair work may lead to the danger of injury to the personnel and the risk 
of damage to the instrument! 
> Repair work on the Brabender instrument is only to be carried out by 
Brabender service technicians or by skilled personnel authorized for this 
work by Brabender! 
If the Brabender instrument needs to be repaired, please contact the Brabender 
Service department. 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG 
KulturstraBe 49 - 51 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
‘it Phone +49-203-7788-131 
ft) E-mail: service@brabender.com 
North American Regions 
C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
tit Phone 201-343-8425 
(ft) E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
7778 MetaS\ation 4EMetaStation 4E 16 Disposal 
The owner of the instrument is responsible for ecologically sound disposal of the 
Brabender instrument or of parts thereof. 
9 In case of a necessary disposal of the Brabender instrument or of parts 
thereof, we recommend entrusting an authorized disposal company with the 
disposal of the machine/machine parts to make sure that the local regulations 
concerning collection, recycling, and disposal as well as those concerning 
documentation are observed. 
79Disposal 
80 MetaStstion 4EMetaStation 4E Annex 
17 Annex 
17.1 Accessories, spare parts, additional equipment 
For accessories, spare parts and additional equipment, please contact the 
Brabender Service in case of need. 
Brabender GmbH & Co. KG 
Kulturstra6e 49 - 51 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
ir Phone +49-203-7788-131 
1:9 E-mail: service@brabender.com 
North American Regions 
C.W. Brabender Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
ir Phone 201-343-8425 
1:9 E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
17.2 Electrical documents, wiring diagrams 
The electrical documents and wiring diagrams of the Brabender instrument are 
included separately in the scope of delivery. 
81Annex 
17.3 Electric interferences 
The close arrangement of electric instruments in an electrically disturbed 
environment may cause electric interterences on the power supply connection which 
require potential equalization. 
Example no. 1: Potential equalization with separate ground cables (for separate 
wall outlets or separate distribution boxes) 
2 = TFCOgTapTM AmyiO!lraph-E 
fe pt 
Fig. 38: Potential equalization with separate ground cables 
1 Power cord 3 Connect ground cable for 
2 Wall outlet potential equalization 
Example no. 2: Potential equalization without separate ground cable (with a 
single, common power outlet extension) 
n=1 nex n=-y 
Ferinograptl’ Visc:ograph-E Amylognip £ MT-C 
2 
5 
6 
40 4 8 
-11 9 
Fig. 39: Potential equalization with common power outlet extension 
1 Power cord 6 Internal static bypass 
2 Wall outlet 7 AC to DC rectifier 
3 Potential equalization with 8 DC to AC inverter 
power outlet extension 9 Battery 
4 UPS: if required, for weak power 10 Normal operation 
supply grid 11. Battery power 
5 IMPORTANT: Use double- 
conversion UPS! 
82 MetaStation 4EMetaStation 4E Example no. 3: Potential equalization with separate ground cables (for different 
voltages and separate wall outlets) 
nat n=2 __ x REE 
‘Docking-Station | 
4 
UPS 
CEE 
3x400V 
CEE 
3x400V 
2 
Fig. 40: Potential equalization with separate ground cables 
1 Power cord 6 Internal static bypass 
2 Wall outlet 7 AC to DC rectifier 
3 Connect ground cable for 8 DC to AC inverter 
potential equalization 9 Battery 
4 UPS: if required, for weak power 10 Normal operation 
supply grid 11 Battery power 
5 IMPORTANT: Use double- 
conversion UPS! 
83Annex 
84 7" """" MetaStation 4EetaStation 4E 18 Index 
c 
Current SUPPIY «0.0... eeeeeeeeeeeereeees 4l 
D 
Dimensions .......0...0:cceceeteeeeeeeeee 42 
E 
Electricity 0.0... cece eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 41 
Emergency motor stop button 
Functional check..........:::cceee 57 
Position, function .............00ccccceeee 18 
Emergency shut-off switch 
Position, fUNCtION ............cceeeeeee 20 
F 
Fan 
Checking the filter mat..........0.000... 67 
Position and function..........00..08 66 
Filter 
Checking 
Front side.. 
M 
Measuring mixer 
Mounting ......eceeeeeeeeeeeeeeteeeeeeeeeeee 48 
MetaBridge 
Creating an administrator account Index 
LOQHIN woe. ee eeeeeteereeeeee 37, 59 
PresettingS.......0.c:eceeeeeeeeeeneeeee 54 
Running down the PC... 38 
Setting the date... ee 55 
Setting the time... ee 56 
Start SCEEN oo... eee 39 
Mounting surface... 34 
R 
Rear Sid@.........cceeeeeceeeeseeeteeeee 31, 34 
Right Side... eee eeeeeeereeeee 31 
Ss 
Safety device... eects 21 
Safety devices 
Automatic torque limitation............ 22 
Emergency motor stop button .... 18, 
57 
Emergency shut-off switch.....20, 58 
Magnetic safety device................ 21 
T 
Terminal side .............cceeee 31, 33 
Torque limitation... eee 22 
Two-hand control device ...........00. 22 
w 
WeiIGNE oo... eee ee eect eeeeteeteeteeees 42 
85Index 
66 MetaStalion 4E[~ Device 815670 MetaStation 4E 
Brabender ov 
Ht Brabender® GmbH & Co. KG 
Kulturstr. 49-51 47055 Duisburg Germany 
tr Phone:+49 -203 -7788 -0 brabender@.brabender.com 
Product |MetaStation4E | 
Model | 815670 | SN | -_— YoM D 
viseaoovenspe | ul soveo | = Arn Diagram I 815670E000-04 11 | 1851/min | ( E 
Bratbe indteri Deckbiatt [rupp, S1S6z0_ — ale _ A over shee Pe pee 815670E000-04 Sl + ol a a l i < az . S 
List of Contents 
sheet | description version date user document type 
Dec kblat Cover sheet 1 Deckblatt 
2 ‘inha lis ver eich nis List of contents List of Contents 
3 Power supply Wiring Diagramm => Streplaufplan 
4 Power supply Wiring Diagram 3.0_Stromlaufplan 
5 Safe t... yc irc _u it Wiri Diagramm 3.0_Stromlaufplan 
6 Safetycircuit time. Wiring Dia gram SSirembufplan 
7 Speedco_n tro lle r Wiring Diagramm 3.0 Stromlaufplan 
_eed controller WiriQ.g Niagramm 3. .0|Stromlauf p lan 
9 l_e m, _ pe rature controller Wiring Diagramm 3.0_Stromiaufplan 
0 Temperature c--on tro lle--r W---ir--in a Diagram m 3.0 Stromiaufplan 
Be 1 Stocktemperature measurement Wiring Diagramm 3.0_Stromlau_fpla ne po. 
24g 12 CAN-Bus_ and Torque measurement. Wi---ir--in m 3.0 Stromlaufplan 
ose 13 CAN-Bus and Torque measurement Wiring Diagramm 3.0 Stromlaufolan Ee | ; | a | 4 P_C_-D evice Wiring Diagramm 3.0 Stromlaufplan 
; i : 5 PC-Device ring Diagram 3.0 Stromlaufplan 
ees F 6 Betriebsmittelliste Components list 6_ Betriebsmittelliste 
3 & 
eH ¥ 7 Betri ebsmittelliste Components list 6_Betriebsmittelliste 
ete 8 Betriebsmittelliste Components list 6 _Betriebsmittelliste 
beeee 9 Be triebsmittelliste Compone_n ts | is t 6 Betriebsrnittellisle 
. =O,  Betriebsmittelliste Components list 6 Betriebsmittelliste stand 
dehaiten 
wir 
uns 
alle 
Rechte 
vor. 
Vervietfattigung, Bekanntgabe 
an 
Dritte 
oder 
Verwertung 
seines 
inhaltes ‘sind 
ohne 
unsere 
ausdrlickliche 
Zustimmung 
verbolen, @ BRABENDER 
GmbH&CO.KG 
Duisburg For 
dieses 
Dokument 
und 
den 
darin 
dargesteliten 
Gegen- 
TaUETUpDE 
. = os = Brabender’ iRpalsysrzgiehnis 815670 
—_ on] = Ztlc=""9S,..814670E000-04 f, 
ee I s e 1 a Diirum 1 Nan [emt : —33__ - fied = ye Flies : - -:6 - f 
kell gat 
3 Un: Al 
A mtg. way 
_mea, N14Al 
XT ¢ -XT\)3¢ x72 13m -XT2i400 -XT2 ru ATT; xTg"" 3M. XD Os ai 7m XB PEL AL 
Motor Kneader panel connection panel P! c Ventilation Heating zones panel 
° l Mi le oe me ite J- J- 
a8 Ground panel Motor panel Pot screw Ventilation air Heating zones panel cover front 
Smm2 
qT {" 3 
) 
le ou 
2 z X14 
clea 
See X18 £8 2 jrzjee bod 
aes § adhd > xn, my j {tt ' & sXTJ 
ir a xTtLa 
ese a 1,5mm' orange £3 
i Be 338 ATL deo Ut ptr 
D if il 6mm2 a a a a 
Pa ‘ 3 orange 
U2 13 N IL9077/800.12 ‘Admeni 12 14-22 24 
ee us" 1 Ht i ua 
gees M 3 i | $ 291253 over-/underwitage 
$s : 2] 36A protectlonrelay 
SyPea 
Hl = § 5| 6mm! 
28923) aGese 0. e« avegssu | one 
Wb 1 
al nH Fy : a ;| 
LE She] ” CEE/32A 
217484 Word oir 
[------- -0,="=]rc'22.0¢.2c20 Rrahondear _ act._| PiHommes Brabender | WRowey Dizeyamm BaugNp. 845670 
ZN, cum : ———EE Zoichn.,g-Nr.8 196 / QEQUQ-Q4 
Ew. wi Bad Ini 
13.AS :Jr 
3.AGi:.,.:f ik} 
13.M - 
han bee XT PE 
2 22 08 207 
P.Hommes. an 
+XT2Qat. 
X72 
XXTH  -XI<.tk 
Pe 
ADA) 
-F2 nied 
18935 2 Power pack 
. 240W 
10,0A fay GNO | GND 
-XT2_ 120 
-X28 3 -X28..," -X281 X280! 
ay 2411 
a] ] -M3 
oll |) &\) 222680" oc 
‘GND LJ 
7 —1 
obo3... M693... air air 1 
all atrup 
!Power supply 
Wit in ge: Dia gra m. ama! -T4 IN 
XT4 '2N -XT4 Bll 
XT2_m X14 in +XTALL 
Vv 
i -T7 nid 221880 
power supply powersupply 
Wo sow 
-XTsiIN .XT4 /Pu 
IN| -xr4.:1 dru 
sy 
I, 1-H j«.3-t< 
- Tevall 
at De -F12 fv x1'GNO! 
Tew 24192 UB. MC 
Param § Sarit 
Zeeh''"'1-1<r815670E000-04 olin L\ILAI 
11.A1 
xT2: LAL 
-.mt" !hI7.AL 
20:1 14.A1 svaol - 
WOO UOTE say ay 
ss) OOI-?!'L.c> 113.4. 
.X25:3CI.N-O! 13.Al 
XT pee @r: ISA 
X74 seu antl: 10 
' Paarimet W: 
241895 Temp-Can- 
all & 
” 
Ciuertonelnatellun; 
PIN ..mit PIN CP gebrOakt 
groove §15670 
6 1 I 2 
A 14. 1Sr,2 
W.COE* -xTs: T" J 
-Xlyru 
2Bp|Do f Ts tisi-jlu 
Bert ut mr 
xt) B 
N32) a0 ‘e 
Emergency 
STOP 4 
12 oN -wi2 GN 
-XT5 > -XT5 
-XTS™ -XTS On 
ad 241 
F 
Dttum _22:,08.20 
| ee.*,  P.Hommes 
! Ge 
AMS I Daun saves - Ibs. ah ‘I, IK 4 
-Jm.,.. 
-XTS dru 2XTS tea 
-XT5 ] -XTS 
i I 
-Wi2 Ml o> Bw 
so " 1. ™ 
mig © 222534" 
-W22 RD -wi3 RD 
. fr 
1 
-XT5 1 
-XT5 
XT tu 
UIA. 
3 
| Bralbe1n er®1 fea Bild sl 
AXT5 Bu 
-XT5 | 
a a 
I 
-XT5 
i 
WB “113 YE 
DRIVE DRIVE 
START S1GB 
ee 221840 12 
2225291--r -S1 221840 2225281 
-W13_ BN 71123 wv 
i -XT5 
fl ond, 1 
-XTS) ¥ 
! fr XUSMC-hpt — yo4gMC-input 
D1 ttweStert D1120!Nestop| 
‘Safety circuit 
Wiring Diagramm 
l 6 
-XT6'{ru 
! 
-XT6 J 
i 
ll -XT6 1 
I 
illo mn YE 
xd! l 
a1sb3_t 
nit | \ Mixer 
-WIl BN W:.1 GN 
i 1 
xTe | -xt6 |. 
vxrdan -XH <u 
XMSMC-hput . 
XI4SM" Clrput 
DIOZTWcHIMIGNO 0101TwoHandNC 7 8 
ATi ay 16. 
GNDI\s /6.A1 
XT5 du XIS2W BY eat 
-XT5 1 
SITS 3ru XT62IN pyst- 1681 
> 
ard 
J 
a 1133lal YE WIS tt 
"| i 
-X3 
221363 | 
1---)- ™ 
nid ! L. 
ais i ws BN 
-XT5 - 
-XTS 
ards -XTS Gru 
lle -P!t 
| @ ut 
XH SMC-hou] ug MIC-kp 
OICMWwoFhn!fNO | D.OITIW Iiftil 
Baugruppe 815670 
zacnmes B1S67QEQQQ-O4 ES/5.AS Bro i, v -XT2 we 
15,AB ONO ——— TT Oe (BAY 
A 15.AS — — PULSI X15 -fa a —_— itt AMS py 
| 
-XT5 I 
TS.Bi c-IS:3ruftiST XT5_ 21 
“X15 XxT/S"™ Tn, 
wn 8 Mixer safekyswitch aan | i 
8 - Satty-swite(h—___——— tt seoete closer 
LEDONif } j 
222008 E «.,. Auxiliary 
— contact 
ce fw fyve fe JBN os BL ao 
| le Connector 
offi 221996 | T 3 : 14 @ ry . 
He : X21 L L L r 4 
Bae 2ars7e INU. 4 les ily = 8e 7 42pol. : £5 
He 3 pueh/p1.111 
Hi 5 ons BN WH YE GN , RD 
as3 3 
235 aa0 ah 
| |3z8 : ere Ol eersa | [28384 22, 
z I 
: -XT5 1 -XT51 Page 
shi . AF 5 -XTS) to XMS! 20 -F12 
see 
at ussey 
E 5 i j i 2 
se58q 1ffel2 x28 sunt x28 SUC nt 
eal | | DlosHinerCicse | C106 Miter doce ‘MANS OPO 9.00 peig 
goed 
ggpid Speed controller K3 
shed ENPO 
g2:ca 
5a28 
yy ede By, — ny yy ee Fallen SEE ---rii-ccc nn -1 
| Braibeindlere1 \Safety circuit “erupp, 815670 
a ct E.. Wiring Diagram 1, z,oho,ng,,Nr815670E000-04 iw» 
| 3 4 | s 6 7 B I4.AlJI,>-cX12:1* LI XxT2 
[4ani-ti!.23+ 12 xa 
x28 XT2_ 8 MAR foe XS a vP 
14k pm AE 
4M — xlewwre X72 40 
pag ta PUSe ste 
1 3 {§ 
Fi DR aA, 
K-20A 2 4 le 
XIO.LIE X10.2. X<1UjIl PE 
X1DPower Typ: SOS 5075 
= 4 | Pair 614589-001-00 266243 |IP-192.HIUx 
X2DMotor 
X20.U NO.V_X20.W X20.PE 
Wi7 
(BR |& 
lu ly [w PPE 
-M1 
235306 
€202G017&EZIiO&U 
Pm4,24KW 
Ie 17,817 
I= 10,000 
na3241mIne1 
M = 13,10Nm XT2., 4310 
Cover K1 
X4 Invertermodul X2Invertannodul tootor 
Temp-sensor ENCODER: 
-K1 l 266243 ——_+ 5 )-sua =| Xl ‘Sensor 1Spol.o-sua atfedy XU GME-Seno 
lel - 
X21 X12 
91 1a 
ag) 
L 
“wi9 
™ —— 618553.001 
' § . Gehause M1 
-M1 1 t 
235306 ° Xa XT xratt 19.Al 
XT -XT4 31 -X1<:3'-!4-19 Al 
xi bli-19.AL 
N 19.Al 
X72 46 XT4 188 XT tz00 KT. 10 XTA tse XT4_4ru PER Ay 
-XT7 N PULSZ 
cover monitor 
cover behind control unit 
X12in.. rter saftymodul 
ASP5001 
-K1 266243 | f 
IF lz ‘ ‘ ‘ 
yaaa [xi2 | xt2s 3124 
72.06-2020 PHommes Speed controller 
Wiring Diagramm Brabender' auouoae 815670 
1 
Ent, Elid,  815670E000-04 -Anzah 20 We 
reserve 
all 
tights 
in this 
document 
and 
in the 
informa~ tion 
contained 
therein. 
Reproduction, 
use 
or disclosure. to third 
parties 
without 
express 
authority 
is stictly forbidden. Far 
dieses 
Dokument 
und 
den 
darin 
dargesteliten 
Gegen- stand 
behalten 
wir 
uns 
alle 
Rechte 
vor. 
Vervielfikigung, Bekannigabe 
an 
Dritte 
oder 
Verwertung 
seines 
Inhaltes 
fe ‘sind 
ohne 
unsere 
ausditickliche 
Zustimmung 
verboten. 
© BRABENDE| /6.M lo 24V 
6.AS| 
/6.EIC X1tInvertermodul 24VDC} XInvertennodul ENPO 
-K1 
266243 
are ho fb ow 8 
xii Xt xt [tt 
-XT2 21 
sINPOf12:2.3 
4M 
-F12 sss snput 
241920. ios Ki Erion... x1002_xMosixHINg X,20,,1 2 X100 Invertennodul 110 
SAE5001 
ENABLE JOGSPEED (1Dmin-1) X,00.,| XIUO.1/ <100¢ X101 Invertennodul 10 
SAE 5001 ° 
fi! > 
8 soe eet 
X101.9 X104.1 X1OL It 1011 XIOU X.101.14 x101.IsfXtol. X.101, 
" 21 
-k9 222152@(,F 14 
-XTS Su 
oX 2.0, 8 SI ig 
8pol.puahtipull 
Torquerange 
selector JOGSPEED 
-K9 | | 222m_~=sI 
ff 
ey lU Boe 
-k9 
18, 
13 f 1 
212 
%&.D6 3S -4 
222152 xTa:A 
X14:1I> Tom HAAN 
/14.A1 
Brajbel ndjer® | 
Frat | erw4 Shere BRE ugr uppe 815670 
za<nfug-N, 81 5670EQQQ-04 SKS -Anuhl 20 I7Ate, JI! xm4y ls X14 2 —___. raat UW 9 Ai 
rag 2 -xn..."—--- /10.A1 
HAMG>JIT451 13 x4, Xap 1 /10.AL 
ace xT2 “XT2 91> -XT2 to -XT2, tu “XT2 -XT2 11+ yz oa 
— mw 2 Xp ; 
fLAB :1.4fuPE ATs HT sto x ee Xr, -xTb"™ XT I0.AL 
-XT3 -XT3 -XT3 -XT3 -XT3 -XT3 
' 
-F3 -F4 6 -F7 oi | 
1 yor ft 20Mt rome 1 1 
221389 221389 221389 221389 221389 221389 
& Ta, 
ES 13 Ble nit 
i a 201969 al 
|88 
33 T4 "Ij /L81 
ao -T4 . aml pd. 11.81 fl 221969 221969 15 
H 1 
3 iy -T5 DiJe ILCI 
ae -15 I Lcl ec 221969 2219691 = 
Bi ' 
3, es 
88 3 z ‘ . «7 KB £8 222095. oi! In 0 223095? wh 222095 22088 
SSR SSR SSR SSR $SR 
Bie 
gti LL ay a Ssse 
£38 8; 
Be EG . 
gees Panel -X6 i -XS “x9 i 
ae -X4.; x5. I = -X7 . ; }2823 217248 217248 217250 s , | 217248 2112Ma 217248 . 
iat 
a ie Zone 1 Zone2 Zone3 Zone4 Zones Zone6 
e265 
Pha 
Be Temperature controller a 815670 
Wiring Diagramm (Zolobnue;,;, 8150/QEAQO-Q4 fav 
Ib. [81Anzahl 20 i a |i 8 
9.A8%, Xl “XT4_21 i: 
WAR Pe tt - 
A 19,ASIF * " 
ga 2:44- N 2X7 wt . 
WAS. 1 = PE -XT1\/" . Xr4it4lu PEI, 14.AL 
-XT4.1. -XT4.1 
F9 1) -F,104i owe IE, one 1 
221330 221330 
n > 21 _ 
j ; R2200.034-0-HA3-7S 
Comte Gems cil RODIO-<1H051 Tenp-ContolerOupulea 
2 si Tump.-Con a ral g 4 " “4: U J 
Lif J TD cette ge 3 et Le a a | re 
‘a 2B 991° 0 19 " or 8 
24 
2a¢ 
$oa 
Hi Eee 
oie - cr . aoe 12 ' Z z ey - wee ‘K10.K1r K10.K2 ‘ K10.K4 3 Kav KS ign Kg > LIA2- kp 2. 
pl ages 22200sL+ 222095 « | 22209s1f=-ti222095]i 222005 ~r- | 2220051--! 
ageé 673307.003' SSR j,_,. SSR ar SSR a SSRIS; SSR ar SSR iat 
Bes ° ° inl 1 a .D1 190Z 11.03 ws 11.05 19.06 
Sag z -x1J,0, XT4,_,1010 at -xr,IIta 
Se38 -XT4 XT4 12b -XT4 13° =XT4 Ii, 
iu Ui X44 : i 4 on ' Hii i K10.K1é K10.K21 Kid! 5 -K10.K41 
HEE aatale - JJ 673307 673307 673307 673307 Ze8es 
nL 4 § 
; a Zonel Zone2 Zone3 Zone4 
| [3RRES 
_S Oot. | 22.08.2020 . heinder® . sa" 815670 
a.. | Pitommes d T = er a t=. troller —— 
| —_ a mvs Wirth Biligr thf ole t>nrosw 81567 QEQQQ-Q4 = ax _ 
= ee Ee Ent | ema, ! Bepee_20 Al 
R2200.a34-0-5.aA3-7-5 
K Temp.-Conlrol rSelil nttmnsfonner 
2a189 ' lro 
fvet_t tt ni. t+ +4F . 0 HI 2 183 
B 
y.cat 
9.C8..132 -U 
19.Cs.-I"1* 
19.car,....ul ™ 
19.061->-!8 s 
9,080 ..T.iJ--5 
. h 18580 
ds 
i PA . 
Intervanton 
Helzsirom!Iborwaohung 
atum 
eS ES SS | - 
A PT a Bet 
1 2 3 R2WO 34-0-5-B63.7"5 R2200.a34-0.8 SA:P-5 
lemp.-Conlre! rinputTCI PT100. Zone 
Temp,-Contron.t Input TCIPT 100 zonel-4 
1 . * 
oat —W- —+—s-+t oo et _ 
‘ 3 5 83 °, em = on 
" ooa 
Mi a wo ut f Wid 23) Ml RO 211422, Meg 21742 m feo mm Mt RO 217422 wit RO 211422 rel po 
X14 -X15 
X10» -X11 X12, X13. 
2183017 2183017 2183017 218301 218301 
2 " AI 
"U "U "U "U ‘U “U 
218285 218285 218285 218285 218285 218285 
engn mE ee = =4.01 Use:cAN.i12 CAN-IN 
-T12 X22 
241907.001 218244 
ouny 22.06.2020 
DP - Honeme s - CAN-GND ooil’si__ ov 
CANH 
CAN-L WH 
-X23 592 
i1, i ) 
| 200.1 xmG.2 %200:1 X20.4 X2008 2200 J/:200.1 XM_e. xz008 
-K1 | ° 
266243 1 
MO< 10: 9pol.0-SUB 
X200 Invertermodul CANI>pen 
ra elnler !l W bt 4 W3 003136 YE 
Gli 
mm 
TORQVE:.-AMPLIFIERE MP55-X1-CANBUS, 
241692 Modul-1040 
600KB 
Z| =e {Spot 241692 {LOADCELL 
Par) lis 
xaey ot 218616 |, nm (a ed | 
BE S 555 
241362' 
Load celle as 93.3196 YE H28t CV a py 
GN -K2:92 CAN-M).. 1\ Bi 
SN 113.8 
om 13BI 
ov AONT IN ft 
2 | TOROUE-AMPLIFIERE 
- MP5S.X3-01GIN/ANAOUT 
wn 
ze"ungs,Nr.815670E000-04 /4.CB +14V_:1S:2" v 
HBOOoO - Cll 
A 
-X27 
218191 
M <p pape TM" owa4! ails vE 033136 YE 033 ve CMIIV__ CAN-OUT 
oc 112.B8 OV C/.N-O«D au wiJi 
112Be AA 1-H BN BN IN Jn 
he 221332 
B 2.86 Sa TZCNLCAML “ m : " R120 
105 R258 = 7 
218191 i it 221592 
4 + —— if ka 2 FS = ! 
2% —=— OFF CN 
-B2 owt ~ i 
c Et 241699 Ve a a = 
LAT ¢ 7 " ootr HM 8 ye sw pis =a . ge guy Gms fer) 
i i t ° oo - ° 
ial 
1 i (e] -K2] NC Ne .t chu aH ' & WH RO 1M, RO iMt = RO WH RO 
A 241895) RRR ESHRGRPARSBObcAN-Bus 
‘ 140) FRiaee 
L ] 8 Jl t yey WI -WU -WU .W16 
. . j X18] x49 9 i, ahd, mel ast 
¢ 6 t) 
bis At 218285 218285 218285 218285 
We Beal elfa § a3 Su5 29 35598 gates 
ial Hil Es BELEEE 
F 
sete atet Bratbe1ndje rl c AN..c8.B u $-=a'=nd for q ue measurement cum, 815670 —_ | Wiring Diagramm Z,;,,nungs-Nr.815670EQQQ-04 
Ft Enid 14.CB Wy 
14,CB ov 0-014 
4 18.AB 2N a XT4_ a0 AM are ATA Mexdioo 115.01 
BAB. GND re “X14. 20 ——________ XT4 itu 180 -XT4:20ro0 -f15.A1 
110.Aa Pe ooo a -XH,,_ + 6>/15.Al 
doe om 
-XTS IN 
RD 8K 
if lr I 
- e 3 XT8 | 
ii" i 
. wa 
3V_GND batjg BN Vii VE GN 
cN23 cn20 | 
Up’ ite L 
UP Squared Gateway.P tiumN4200 awe — 
-K11 wero «=a VL Ir 19 tHESHUS.IT 48 -P3.X1 {J+ Ls t 
: 242034 USBI USB2 HDMI1 DP1 —_USB3__USB4 242036 50 — 
: iis — ! A 1251 aE ales «i000 css ! 1 | le 
Saal B X01 q 
cles | -XD1} esp oestander 7 P3 mutiouct Contr Pana J Ae 1 5 5 1 242042 242033-1 
£53 | i 5 ? , le 
a 23 Display ale x103 xi02 
] HE is LéIBIE R usB-E * vt 
see < USB-CAN -T12usb ——_—_. Port Pairt 
I 3 9] feet 
z 3B g |" ar hl » © gE 2 1 
igi t | Sse ¢ = LS 8 3 
ay3 3 mil | . oe g TIO! Bae 3 . Wil 
DI8sz 3é 242044151_j 618001001 
$355¢ " 
diss sxtmitot 
ae8e 
Spit ae 
Wile ABER BE 
35230 ea Shy 
eet eeesg 
seeks 
LL ' ' yee Sr ; 35324 XT] -X38,. -X39 4 XA. 
oi e2a 222507.001 222511 222511 est J g2724) “ 7228 
HEE oa Be 
. USB LANOUT LANIN- HDMI USB USB 
F 
Brab d er’ PC-Device Bwsroone_ 815670 
| Bete | Wiring Diagramm .s-NBr 15670E000-04 [ett 34 Teme Teese 14,A81>21!""" 36) 
114.A6 *:i , GMI 
114.AI'" 
T LEX-1]63HMS-WT 
242036USB - . 
sinh 
ial 242035 
ft wag 122882 
aw II 
XTIO 1 3 
222189 -XT4 taro 
_xTa 
“XT6 5. p> 
a 
xm © i 
| 
-XT9 
225 
TIL ocx. 
m2 wos 2V 
© UIs 
-XT91 
AN . 
wn 
{$+ 
ie} 
‘AmplfierKerne -K12 
wean f 242009 
Bra\belnd[erl__"“Sweay'bs 815670 
shonin 81567QEQQ0-04 | 
8Components 
. device a. . 
POS. | assembly | location oe component description supplier y designations P P page/ path 
1 -81 241362 Load cell 26 200KG Hottinger Baldwin N2.E 6 
2 ----+---8 2 24 16.:.9=9 Suut=-0¢c. kK temperatur Modul uCAN 4,ti: 4 channel MicroContro | 
3 -F1 222023 automatic circuit breaker 3 pol 20A [Type S203P-K 20 ABB Stotz 7 8 2-- 
4 -F_2 2 18935 automatic circuit breaker 1 pol 10A Type S281-K10 ABB Stotz /4.B2 
5 -F3 221 389 a Fuse 6,3x32 20A ultra fast Schurter /9.B2 
S 4 221389 Fuse 6.3x32 20A ultra fast Schutter (9.B3 
7 -F5 221389 Fuse 6.3x32 20A ultra fast Schurter /9.B3 
8 -F-=6: 221389 Euse 6.3x32 20A ultra fas t Schuner /9.B5 
9 -F7 221389 Fuse 63x32 20A ultra f-ast Schurter----------------------------- 2.B6 
10 -F8 221389 Fuse 6,3x32 20A ultra fast Schurter ------------------------------- /9.B7 
Bs 11 -F9S9 221330 Fuse6,3x: astacting Schurter /10.B3 
Hw 2 _9_ -F 10 221330 Fuse 6,.3x32 0.3A fast acting Schurter /10.83 rs 
S58 gq | 13 -F11 221623 Over- and undervoltage relay IL 9077.12/800 Dold:; _ /3.D3 
tel | 14 -F_12 424 10.9200 SMC-220 Safety controller w. sensor interface _LT -i.Motion GmbH /4.E5 
in 15 -K1 266243-=-7-)-'S1..2@.0 VSO! LC! 108..0..n1..0..troller Stober SD85075/L ZSKVA/10A/3 x 40 0 V Sto ber —_— $ _ 
as 6 K2 241895 Elotech R2200 8 Zonen Temperatur controller 6x H/C: 2X H:;24  Elotech 14.D7 
aT e | 17 -KS3 222095 yolid state Relay SUL967460-K 230-600V/2_5A Celdu_c ° /10.D6 
Hie 18 -K4 2.2 2095 Solid_state Relay SUL96..7 46-=-0...- K 2 3.20 -6:..0:..10.0.V /2=-5:..4 Cedcu 6 /1-=0..:...D_7 
35 224 19 eKi5 wt '2=2==2095 Solid state Relay SUL9 67460-K 230-600V/25A Celduc /10.D7 
#8 2291? O -K6 222095 Solid state Relay _SUL967460-K 230-600V/25A Celduc /1_O0.D7 
21 -K7 222095 Solid state Relay SUL967460-K_230-600V/25A c_elduc /10.08 
r 22 -KB---+--22 2.09 5 Solid state Relay SUL967460-K 230-600V/25A Celduc /10.0 8 Boe ate 23 Ko Qe 2:22 152 Safety-Relaymodul RM-24V-20/2S APPOLDT GmbH —/8.C7 | 
32a -K_10 6 73307.003 — 1 ~~ a 
u Hf = =s -K11 1-2.4 20 34_ UP Squared Gateway.Pentium N4200 AAEON Technolo /14.B2 
a Bae 26 -K12 242009 Kemo Amplifier MO31N Kemo.Elektronik.GmbH (15.E3 e x| 
ig 27 M1 235306 Stober-Servo4. 24KWi= 17 .. 5 17 +§ tober 17.E4 
FEAL -M2 222693 Fa n2c.:4VD-C..., 6-0:..x60_x 1.5 mm RS Pro /4.E2 
HEL 29 M3 , 222693 Fan at.2 4. Mi ,6.2.../60X6 0.3.0.4 mm oe RL28.2.P..10 4.E 3 
ah 30 -M4 2.2.2 6.93 Fan 24VDC,60 x 60 x 15mm RS Pro /4.E4 
saaee 31 -P1 218580 piezoelectric hooter SCI 535 BS 24Vdc Sonitron /11.C3 
32 al 218580 piezoelectric hooter SCI 535 B5 24V..d.c.. Sonitro1" I4.ET 
4 gays | 22.95.2020 | Brabender) — Asiricosanitietiiste BigNp90 815670 St [ Brabender’ . I “| sate.815670E000-04 Deum nn ———== fe 1-Annht 29 
I s e Components 
A 
‘on}| device inti Pas. assembly | locatl neat component description supplier y designations P P page/ path 
33 " P3 " 242033 Multi-touch_Control_ Panel CP3916-0000 Beckhoff 
B34 —-P4 242008 Structure-borne driver Visatron BS 76- 80hm Visatron GmbH&Co .KG 415.DS 
SBS = -CO-A?2 2 1..2.62:5..5 Power Switch 32A with undervoltaq<-e t rip Elektra Talfinger 3.01 
B 3.6 --=S-=0 2=2=2.:....17....4 Emergency stop button IL DEC 15.C2 
-E -S'--1 222534 LED T5.5K24UB:White:24V_Ae/DCV:7-14mA Schlegel 15.04 
38 -S_1 222528 Pushbutton illuminated START Schlege | /5.C5 
39 -S1 221840 Contactor 2S+20 5-250V 4A Schlegel /5.C5 
40 -S2 221840 Contactor 2S+20 5-250V 4A Schlegel 
—tze5-— 
a1 | -S2 222529 Busbbutton illuminated STOP 
az -T1 221647 Puls Power pack 84-276 VAe / 24-28 voe_lout10A /4.B2 
i. ~T2 --i-=241692 Torque amplifier MP55 f. CAN-bus HBM (12.CS 
© ele m T-'3 221969 current transformer M2000; 50A/50mA i= 1:1000 --------- Elo tech /9.CS 
AE | 45 -—T_4 i21969 current transformer M2000; 50A/50mA i= 1:1000 E lote ch = /9.CS 
ul i 4-=6 -1-- -T5 22.1969 current transformer M2000; 50A/50_m A i = 1:1 000 Elote ch /9.D7 
AH 3) | 47 -T6 221530 puls power pack 84-264 VAC / 24-28 voe/ 2.1A/ SOW, Puls /4.B4 cs-33 
a | 48 -T7 221880 puls power pack 84-264 VAC / 5-5.5 voe__/ 5A / 25W -------- P_uls -Los 
Be 3 -T-=9 242036 Industry USB-2.0 Hub _f....0-=Id; Exsys . 
He 3}| 50 -T10 242044 Active Adapter Displayport- DVI-D; ST DP2DVIS Startech /14.D3 
“edie 51 -T11 2.22712 adjustable DC voltage converters-=3=---1 5=-V" K=e-=m.:.:0 ___/15.B4 
eee) | 52 -- -T12 241907.001 USB-to-CAN V2com,pact H_MS Ind.Net. GmbH 
53 -TF1 242035 2.1 Sound, Manhattan Hi-Speed U-=S-=8:_3:...--=D...A‘..uccd:...io; =» Manhattan-Products /15.83 
itJ" |! 54 Va 221253 Powerline filter FN356-36/33, 3x400V+N+PE 364 Schaffner (3.E4 
rit 55 -W17 221842 Cable for Stober-Servomotor ED704 Stober /7.02 
4,.1 PB -W18 618552 A_.papterkabel_ResolverMDS-SMC1 Z:...2:...1 Stoeber I7.C4 
a itll -|----'-W'-1'--'9 618553.001 Stober cable Motordekoder Endat Stober 
E Eh id) 58 - W2_0 6 18 0 04 L_o _w--'--power cable, plug 5.5/2.1mm, 2m C_onr ad 
59 -W29 618595 Connectioncable USBA/B 1.0 m Inli.n e 
'HH 60 -W30 1-61 8 5..:.9:..5 eonnectioncable USBA/81.0 m Inline 
if ij | 61 -W36 618005.001 Connection Wire DVI_1.5 m f. Multitouch CP39xx-0000 EVG-Martens 
n't! 6:.0:2:...._-1-- -W:8.2.7 618006.001 Connection Wire US8-E 15m f, Multitouch CP3 9x x -0000 EVG-Matens 
__ir_,._<IL-0 6.3 --W_38 2226 82 ~4Connectionc able Klinkenstecker-3.5-Stereo VOLTCRAFT 5 C3 
64 W..G24 618605 Connection cable USB _ 3.0 A/A 1m Delock 
= = 7 BaTDTUppe 
| Bratbe indie Rerigaaiteln= 815670 
=a aa vs 2 EM EB. ww" S14 5670E000-04 7 Components 
POS] assembly location device component description supplier 
designations page / path 
65 -\WG2 618577.001 Cable HDMI(A) male /HDMI(A) male 90° angles 0,5m Bechtle direct GmbH 
g x4 217484. GEE-Connector socket 32A 380-415V 9h, 3P+N+PE /3.F1 
67 =X4 g GEE-Connector Pin 32A 380-415V 9h, 3P+N+PE Diverse /3.F 14 
68 <2 cable connector femal M1? 4pal Woodhead/Nies 
69 -X3 cable connector femal M12 4pol Woodhead/Nies 
70 -X4 217248 Female receptacle 4 polig BU Tuchel-Amphenol . 
71 -X5 217248, Female receptacle 4 polio BU Tuchel-Amphenol 79.E3 
72 -X6 247250 Female receptacle 7pol BU Luchel-Amphenol /9.E3 
73 -X7 217248 Female receptacle 4 polia BU Tuchel-Amphenol /9.E5 
74 -X8 Female receptacle 4 polig BU Tuchel-Amphenol T9E6 
re 5 ve {femosoiole Conndac! {ibe FSTE-FF RegyerAmphenol | RFG« 
é -X10 218285 thermo short-circuit termination /11.C4 
¥ -X11 830 emmocoupte Connecto! mes) 
218285 hermo short-circuit termination 
218301 Thermocou le Connector type FSTC-J-FF 
218285 thermo short-circuit termination 
‘Wsnd 218301 Thermocouple Connector tvoe FSTC-J-FF 
218285 hermo short-circuit termination 
218301 Thermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF 
218285 hermo short-circuit termination 
218301 Thermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF . 
828 thermo short-circuit termination Spoerle /11.C7 
218301 Thermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF Merz /13.05 
218285 hermo short-circuit termination Spoerle 
830 Thermocotple Connector type FST C-J-FF 
218285 hermo short-circuit termination | Spoerle : 
218301 ermocouple Connector type FSTC-J-FF Merz | 713.D6 
hermo short-circuit termination Spoerle /13.D6 
218301 Thermocouple Connector _!Y.pe FSTC-J-FF Merz /13.D7 
218285 hermo short-circuit termination —______[spoere CF “#sSTSDT 
222038 | push pull connector female 8 pol D 104 A066 Fischer Connectors /8.E6 
oo, Dilum Bralbeln er®1 Betriebsmittelliste 
Components list 
re3;- ————_____ 815670 
-Nt.815670E000-04 8lalta WWe 
reserve 
all 
rights 
in this 
decument 
and 
in the 
informa I I 1--s]j1 -Ss -— i] Ss 
Components 
POS). ssemPly | location oestrone component description supplier pagel path 
9 7--t----+----- + -X21 221376 12pol.push_pullconnector female -+F_isc her 16 C 3 
98 -X22 218244 D-SUB female connector 9pol Ernie 112.83 
-X23 2.2 15.:...9:_2------+-=D----......8....:.U_B female connector 9pol Subcon M2 E rn_ie 142.C4 
100 -X24 218616 D-SU8 male connector 15pol Erie /12.06 
1O1 -X25 218191 D-SUB male connector 9pol Ernie /13.B5 
102 x 26 221592 D-SUB female connector 9pol Subcon M2 Ernie /13.87 
103 -X27 218191 D-SUB male connector 9pol _tirnie -------------- /13.88 
104 -X2_7 1221332 D- Sub_ connector with terminal resitor 120 Ohm for CAN-bus KKC_Handelsae. 113.88 
105 -X28 217057 Terminal connector 12 pol. Klering GmbH /4.D3 
1 OSG —-——1—-~—--4 -X29 222509.001 flange socket 2xUS8 2.0-A type RRJ US8 Schlegel GmbH&Co.K_G 
° 107 eects 38 +222511 lange socket RJ45 typ RRJ_RJ45 Schlegel GmbH&Co.KG 
i. 108 -X39 2225 11 -+_f la_n"--ge_so_cket RJ45 typ RRJ_RJ45 Sch_el_ GmbH&Co.KG 
53 a | 109 -X40 222513 lange socket PS2 typ RRJ_HDM1_ST8 Schlegel GmbH&Co.KG 
a i 110 X44 218280 CPC-square Flange receptacle AMP_182641-1 AMP/Tvco /10.E2 
aa 4] 111 -xXD1 242042 C9900-K630/CU8801, US82.0 -E xt e nde r-Tx 8 eck ho ff 
a3 g 112 XG1 2 22 507.001 Flange socket USB 2.0-AR.:...R....:.J=U-=-S-=-8==<.AA “9S. thee. gel /14.F1 
$3 8) 113 -XT1 222763 Connection block MetaStation 4E_XT1 Phoenix Contact 
2% 4 a a _ ——_ 
BE iat ti dete feck, Te2 ; ; ; bef 15 -xT3 ZS onnection_bloc! ation 4E XT2 Phoenix Contact | 
Base 146 -XT4 222761 Connection block MetaStation 4E XT4-- -Phoenix Contact WH| —___| 
a wheeX 1 TSB =2=22764 Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/6 for ~{8:.1m... in. cask-~ ..enix Contact ans 
_ -XT5 222736 Plug - PP-H_1,5/S/4 for Terminal PhoenixContact ~ AS | 
333i 119 -XT5 222764 Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/6 for Termina Phoenix Contact 5.82 
$322] 120 -X T5 222736 Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/4 for Terminal Phoenix Contact {5.87 
He el Vo QT -XT5 .222734 ~~ Plug-PP-H1,5/S/2 for Termina Phoenix Contact /5.D5 
ale 122 melee X2....T-=.S 222694 Connection block XT5 Drive Unit Phoenix Contact 
ie 123 -XT6 222737 Plug - PP-H 1.5/S/5 forTerminal = = i oe Phoenix Contact] ../8.E6 
28283) 124 -XT6 222736 Plug - PP-H 1,5/S/4 for Terminal Phoenix Contact /5.86 
iis if 125 -XT6 222695 Connection block XT6 Drive Uni Phoenix Contact | 
ie |--1_26 an X_T_T 222715 Terminal connector PTV 2,5-Quattro _ Phoenix Contact _/5.B1_ | 
[5822 127 -XT8 +-222773 Plug - PP-H 1.5/S/7 GNYE Phoenix Contact /14.B8 
128 -XT8 222734 Plug - PP-H 1.5/S/2 for Termina Phoenix Contact 415.B4 
Beadi, | P Hommes | Components list 4 "i" B15670E000-04 pierre 
ree or ra cafe Eo-.t.-- lew > + a -1A 
4 I sib / 2 4 5 oe -- -- -7-- --1l- ~~ 
6 
Components 
; device component description supplier ! path POS. | assembly | location | designations p p page / pa 
129 -XT8 2 a P_-lug - PP-H 1,5/S/4 for Terminal Phoenix Contact , 14.B7 
130 -XT8 222762 Connection block MetaSta tion 4E XTB ------------------------------------ Phoenix Contact 
131 -XT9 222189 Terminal connector 10p 0 || ---n--2-----n-nnnnnnne nnn Weidmi.iller 415.84 
132 -XT10 222189 Terminal connector 10pol WeidmOller 115.03 B 
133 -XT4.1 221576 Terminal connector ABB Entrelec-Schiele 10.83 
2u9 
zee g 
aie 
ie Hed eos g 
age 2 
ig 0 sBER 
85286 
bese 
epee ie ate 
eePia 
Fc for 
Hei 
RES rs 
| | — | 
_ i] 
| if | Owen _| 22.00.2020 | Betriebsmittelliste fone 815670 —_T | [— fe — [me | Brabender’ ent tees ee ee | Is ’ es ; — 815670E000-04 ann» ‘ustand Lane | Datum Nene Nem > Une. 5 | eat. fens a = 
8°9 
9°) 
ony 
99 
LJBrabender® GmbH & Co. KG 
Kulturstr. 49-51 
47055 Duisburg 
Germany 
‘iii’ Phone +49-203-7788-0 
0:il E-mail: brabender@brabender.com 
www.brabender.com Brabendler, 
... where quality is measured. 
C.W. Brabender® Instruments, Inc. 
50 East Wesley Street 
South Hackensack, New Jersey 07606 
USA 
if Phone +201-343-8425 
i Fax +201-343-0608 
O:il E-mail: service@cwbrabender.com 
www.cwbrabender.com 000 «6pa6eH,qep» 
yn.flrOAMHCKa ,A. 25 
420032 Ka38Hb 
PoccM 
"2. Ten. +7 843 233 46 66 
0:il E-Mail: 000.brabender@brabender.ru 
www.brabender.com