Data Visualisation
Assignment 1
Document Submission Cover Sheet

Please ensure that you complete all relevant sections below and that you make this the first
page of your assignment submission.

For submission, you are required to put all aspects of the assignment into one document,
including the cover sheer below and then to submit the assignment on Moodle in the relevant
module location.

The assignment must be completed on or before the designated submission date and time.
Students are recommended to keep a copy of the assignment, as submitted.

Please complete the following, in advance of submission.

If for some reason you cannot complete this form to attach to your assessment, please hand
write the details, photograph and upload to Moodle.

Student Number Programme Title:

Programme Year: Module Title:

Lecturer Name:

Visualisation Title:

The GE (General Electric) Apollo Flight Plan Poster from 1969

Declaration of Authenticity: (Please Sign)

By uploading this document, | confirm that | have read and understood the assignment
instructions and that the attached assignment is original (save for the visualisation being
analysed) and represents all my own work.

Introduction:

As a child born in the late 1960s, the NASA Apollo Program to land astronauts safely on
the moon (and return them safely to Earth afterwards) had a significant influence on my
early years. The euphoria and continued interest that my parents and mentors had for this
led, inevitably, to an interest in space exploration, astronomy, physics, and mathematics
that has lasted my entire life.

In the early 1970s, my late father bought a Time Life jigsaw of a photo of the moon taken
from one of the Apollo missions. In the jigsaw box was an added bonus, a genuine 1969
General Electric poster of the Apollo Flight Plan as created by NASA with some extra
embellishments about the Saturn V rocket, the astronauts’ spacesuits, etc. This poster
hung on the wall of my childhood and teenage bedroom for years until, in order to preserve
it, it was rolled up and stored away.

| never thought of it again for many years until, after my father’s passing (my mother
having pre-deceased him), we were clearing out the family home in order to sell it. Hidden
in a cardboard roll in the attic was the poster; fragile but intact. To see it again after so
many years was emotional, touching, and exciting.

| have the poster now and it has gone to a paper restorer to conserve it and mount it in a
frame so it may be hung in my office in my current home. It will eventually be passed on to
future generations to, hopefully, cherish as | have and maybe inspire a new generation to
look to the future with the optimism | had as a child.
The Visualisation:
Further on in this document is an image of the poster as sourced from the web; the original
is now at the restorers.

Layout:

The poster itself is split into three distinct horizontal regions; the uppermost contains the
flight plan and lunar orbital stages, the middle contains some visuals but is devoted to
quantitative information in tables, while the bottom is cut-aways of the various modules
and the astronauts suits. This banded layout is very effective in sectioning the various
types of information being presented, i.e., visual, quantitative, and visual in that order. The
colours scheme, while typical of the time, is nevertheless appropriate and effective.

Flight Plan region:

The heart of the poster (though placed not in the centre but in the top left) is the actual
course the astronauts took on their way to the Moon and back.

It starts on the left with the Earth and the stages of the Saturn V rocket in going from
launch, through the jettison of stages | to Ill, to the point where the Lunar Module (LM) is
extracted from the third stage (stage III) by the combined Command/Service Module
(CSM) to then begin the trans lunar injection to take the astronauts to the Moon, their lunar
orbits and the lunar descent. This trajectory is shown in yellow with the Moon occupying
the lower right in this section.

The return journey is shown in blue (to distinguish itself from the outward journey) with the
Moon now occupying the upper right of this section. This is an important visual trick for a
number of reasons:

¢ The outward and return journeys are clearly separated so there’s no obscuration.

« The drawings of the CSM+LM on the outward journey and the CSM on the return
journey are clearly separated and easier to exaine.

« The temporal aspect of the moon mission can also have been said to be addressed
(not only with a counter on each image of the rockets staging) but also with the
displaced position of the Moon.

The flight plan region is further embellished with a drawing of the astronaut on the moon
performing experiments and how the information is sent back through the LM antennae
through the CSM orbiting the Moon.

Actual photographs of the Earth (including the famous “Earth Rise” image of Apollo 8) and
the Lunar surface fill in the gap between the outward and return journeys.

Finally, as a cherry on top, the stages of the parachute deployment complete the flight plan
section.

As a visualisation, they don’t come better than this. It’s compact, clear, detailed, and
instructive.

Lunar Orbits region:

Placed on the top right, this takes its cue from the flight plan in using two images of the
moon with the outward trajectory and lunar descent stages clearly shown and important
stages annotated. These stages are then linked to images surrounding the Moon showing
what is happening in terms of the LM and CSM.

Above this is the Lunar Ascent stage, the orbits to dock the LM with the CSM, the
jettisoning of the LM, and the return to earth. The images surrounding this image of the
Moon show these various activities.

Similar to the flight plan, the orbits are coloured yellow (outward journey and Lunar
Descent) and blue (Lunar Ascent and return journey) to be consistent.

Similar to the Flight plan region, this is an exemplary example of efficient use of visuals to
create a narrative for, what is certainly, a very complicated set of manoeuvres.
The Quantitative region:

This middle region devotes much of its real estate to tabular data and actual facts and
figures about the Saturn V rocket, the various listening stations on Earth, and the Moon
itself.

To the left we have two cut-aways of the Saturn V rocket straddling a table with information
about the rocket itself. This is for the Geeks who want facts and figures to quote ad
nauseam to anyone who'll listen.

Next to this is the orbital plot relative to Earth with tabular information about listening
stations, time stamps for various activities, dockings, jettisons, etc.

On the extreme right is a section with the facts about the Moon, the landing sites chosen
and images of what these look like from Lunar orbit.

From a visualisation viewpoint, it doesn’t offer much in the way of visuals but it does
provide the precise information (in tabular form) that the other visuals would lack.

The Cut-away region

Finally, the cut-aways. These are intended to show the viewer what the various parts of
the rocket look like and where the components are located, where the fuel and rocket
motors are housed, where the crew sleeps, sits, and performs duties. They also give
information to the viewer as to the different acronyms used to describe the various
modules; LM, CM, SM, CSM, etc.

From a visual standpoint, in an era of no readily available interactive computer graphics,
these visuals are an excellent tool to educate and inform the viewer of both the complexity
and efficiency of the designs used in these modules.

The last section of this region contains images showing the various layers of clothing the
astronauts wear in order to survive in the hostile environment of space. These images
serve as a temporal visual (the inner most layers must go on first, etc.) as well as an
instructive visual. The different suits (flight suits and EV suits) are clearly shown as is the
plethora of sensors necessary to monitor the astronaut’s vitals.

Overall
An impressive and highly detailed, efficient, and informative poster showing the significant
complexities involved in sending an astronaut to the Moon in the late 1960s.
Return to Earth
and parachute
deployment
stages (blue)

Launch from
Earth and Staging
of Saturn V rocket

with trans Lunar
Insertion (yellow)

The stages of the
Saturn V rocket

with tables about

thrust, mass, etc.

Cut-away of the
Command
Module (CM)

GE Apollo Flight Plan Poster 1969

Cut-away of the
Service Module
(SM)

APOLLO INITIAL LUNAR
LANDING MISSION

Lunar orbits and
stages of lander
ascent from
Moon to dock
with CSM (blue)

Lunar orbits and
stages of lander
deployment from
CSM to land on
Moon (yellow)

(Lunar landing |

sites and their
locations on the
moon itself

Orbital trajectory
of Apollo relative
to the Earth’s
surface

The Astronaut’s
flight and space
suits’ components

Cut-away of the
Lunar Module
Descent Stage

Cut-away of the
Lunar Module
Ascent Stage

Conclusion:

So, in conclusion, what we have in this poster is primarily a geospatial and temporal
visualisation of the journey each Apollo mission from Apollo 11 onwards took to land on the
Moon and return safely to Earth. Given the complexities in the processes involved it was
necessary to subdivide the poster in many section, each devoted to a different aspect of
the mission and Apollo Program with the intention of informing and educating the viewer
on the immense effort it took to accomplish the mission.

In my opinion, | believe this poster accomplishes its goal brilliantly. It is a seminal example
of efficiency, visualisation, organisation, and information dissemination.

It also holds a special place in my heart for the hours spent studying its visual components
as a child while sparking an interest that has remained with me personally and
professionally.
